If premium is not paid within days of grace, then late fee will be charged as per fixed rates.
Please submit your Discharged Receipt in Form No.3825 with original policy document at least one month before the due date so that the payment is received timely. The servicing Branch usually sends maturity claim intimations two months in advance. If you have not received any intimation for your claim due in the next two months, please contact the servicing Branch immediately.
Single premium policy means just pay it and forget it. Single premium can be termed as discounted value of premiums payable regularly for entire policy term.
Nomination can be effected through will. But for its execution probate of will is required.
Minimum loan to be repaid is Rs.50/- and in multiple of Rs.10/-.
Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.
You can know your policy details viz, next due date, amount payable etc on our customer portal. You can login to see the details or if you are already not a registered user, you can register here:- Click here'
Under insurance contract, premium is accepted for future and not for past period. Hence, you pay the premium for next future period till end of next premium due as per chosen mode of premium payment.
Yes, you are eligible to get loan under the policy.
Duplicate payment is being refunded to our service provider to be credited back to your account. The refund process may take 6 to 8 days. For further queries please contact bo_eps1@licindia.com'
Sorry, No Data found.
Your liability of outstanding loan and loan interest proportionately gets reduced. Further you have to pay loan interest on reduced o/s loan amount.
Title: Description: Premium can be paid through LIC portal using net banking facility, UPI/ BHIM, e-wallets, VISA/ Master credit/debit cards. For card payment, terms and conditions applicable should be checked.  For online payment of premium please visit our website www.licindia.in. Digitally signed receipt is issued online and sent through e-mail. '
I would request you to please check whether your bank details are registered with us. Payments of Survival Benefit will be done provided you have registered your bank details in the servicing branch of LIC If your bank details are not registered then kindly download the NEFT form here and submit the same at your nearest LIC Branch along with a cancelled cheque or photocopy of your bank passbook.
Please enquire with your servicing Branch office where you have submitted policy document for loan.
Nomination in favor of any other person/ institution other than your close relative will be treated as \'nomination in favour of stranger\'. Hence, with due diligence, LIC may allow the same.
For taking loan under the policy, policyholder is not required to give any reason.
We will transfer outstanding loan to your new servicing Branch and there is no need to repay the loan interest first for getting policy transferred to another Branch.
You are required to submit either a cancelled blank cheque leaf or the photocopy of the page of the Passbook/Cheque book where details of the Bank account are mentioned along with the NEFT mandate form.
To know about LIC panel doctors in your city please click on the below link'
Yes. Premium should be within the credit limit for the credit given by the credit card providers. LIC has tie-up for premium payment up to Rs.1 lakh through Axis bank credit card.
You may download the claim forms here: Claim Form \'A\' - 3783 - If policy has run for less than 3 years from the date of risk. Claim Form No. 3783A - If policy has run for 3 years or more from the date of risk.
Please select plans below'
SMS is sent to customer for acceptance as well as rejection of mandate. Relevant letter is emailed to the customer for rejection of mandate wherever email-id is available and printed letter is sent to the customers where no valid email address is captured. Letters are printed at NACH Centers in LIC.
As per IRDA guidelines, LIC cannot offer any incentive on advance premium. But note that for yearly and Half-yearly mode of premium payment, LIC has already given concession.
It is a onetime process and forms are different for different banks/service providers. After submission of data to the bank/service provider the same is received by PCMC within 3-4 days for which confirmation/rejection is conveyed. Total time taken for registration may extend up to 10/12 days.
You should buy Life Insurance as soon as possible, and definitely as soon as you start earning. Buy when you are young so that your family\'s future is secure and you get insurance at a cheaper cost. In insurance-cum-investment plans, buying early also gives a greater chance for your wealth to grow.
If premium is paid after 6 months, rate of interest will be 9.5% but compounding on half-yearly basis.
You can pay the premium by visiting any LIC Branch office, by registering policy under NACH mode, by registering the policy under Bill pay facility, through ATM of selected banks.
If policy is not revived within a stipulated time period and claim arises, policyholder or beneficiary will not get full benefit of the cover as per the terms and conditions of the policy. To enjoy the full benefits and protection provided by the life insurance policy it is advisable to revive the policy.
If you are registered with LIC\'s customer portal you can check outstanding loan under registered polices. Please  click here for customer portal.
You can find year-wise declared bonus rates here.
Assignment can be done in favor of minor life but policy cannot be assigned during minority of life assured.
Nomination under the policy will not get cancelled.
For change of address you can give written application/Request form and Proof of address in original for verification & ID proof along with self attested photocopy of address proof to your branch office, Where the change will be done in the policy master records.
There are no separate charges for NEFT registration.
It is not compulsory for every policy holder to do assignment like nomination. If the policy holder wishes to raise a loan for housing purpose or business purpose and the lender is demanding some guarantee or property to be mortgaged, then the policy holder can assign the policy.
Date of Commencement or risk Commencement date is the date at which Life Assured Risk has been accepted, It is the date on which the Policy contract has begun.
It is the amount of surrender value which is payable in case the policyholder has chosen complete withdrawal of policy or to discontinue the policy contract before the end of the policy term. For this surrender value to accrue, the minimum number of year‚ premiums will be required to be paid as stated in non-forfeiture regulations. For different type of plans, the method of calculation of surrender value and the surrender value amount available will be different. In your own interest, it is advisable to continue the policy by paying the premiums regularly for full premium-paying-term of the policy.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of LIC to decline or refusal to register such transfer or assignment may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the communication from the insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the IRDA Authority.
The assignment can be carried out in favour of person/bank/financial institution by visiting your servicing branch. You will require original policy document duly signed over proper text of assignment, notice of assignment & notice acknowledgement fee.
It is true that agent will not get commission if you do not pay the premium. But I wish to tell you that by not paying the premium, you will lose the valuable life cover under the policy. Hence, continue to pay the premium. Also note that if agent is terminated, then question of paying commission does not arise.
Premium schedule is nothing but calendar to pay the premium on various dates during any year.
Nomination is an arrangement to receive the policy money or to give a valid discharge to the policy money in case of premature death of policyholder before receipt of policy proceeds. n Assignment is transferring the legal rights/title under the policy to person for some consideration received by the policyholder.
Yes, but only for policies that can be revived on the basis of arrears of premium and late fees. Where some forms are to be filled up, like Declaration of good health or medical exam to be undertaken, then such revivals can be done in servicing branch only, not through E-Services.
Requirements for revival depend upon the policies term and conditions and vary from policy to policy. You can contact any nearest servicing branch or agent to know about the requirements based on your revival quotation. Following are the basic requirements for the revival of policy: n n 1. Declaration of Good Health (DGH) Click here to download DGHn n 2. Any KYC proof n n 3. Medical as applicable according to the Terms & Conditions of the policy. '
You have to execute the form for cancellation of nomination on policy document as per instruction and submit the same to Branch where your policy is serviced with necessary fee.
Nomination will enable the insurance company to settle the death claim amount in favour of nominee person in case of sad demise of policyholder in hassle free manner.
1. If you have registered for LIC\'s e-services you can get a revival quotation for your lapsed policy. Please click here.  2. Policyholder can type \'ASKLIC type of query i.e. prem/rev/bonus/loan/nom (premium/ Loan/ Bonus/ Revival/ Nomination) on his mobile and send it to code \'9222492224\' via SMS to get the necessary information via SMS.  3. You can send SMS \'LICHELP \' to 9222492224, you will get a call from our representative.  4. You can visit your nearest branch for the revival quotation.
Once registered for premiums payments through Net-Banking/Phone-Banking, payment at cash counters and through any other mode of payment is to be avoided, because there are many instances where payment for the same due-month is received twice.
Single premium policy will never lapse. No need to pay the premium regularly. Enjoy the continued life cover through out the term of the policy.
Assignee can raise the loan under the policy with consent of life assured.
Yes, under some of the LIC products, single premium is allowed.
Alteration for increase in term is not allowed, except under Jeevan Dhara Plan. Reduction in term is allowed except under Fixed Term policies e.g. Money Back policies and will be effected from next policy anniversary. Quotation fee of Rs. 50/- will be charged.  You will be require to bring Policy document for endorsement along with a request in writing.
Authorized or empowered LIC agents can collect the renewal premium and issue the renewal premium receipt on behalf of LIC. The offices of such agents are known as premium point.
On submission of loan papers to any LIC Branch, you need not visit servicing Branch of your policy. Loan will get auto processed and will be credited to your bank account.
Now there is a provision to make Payment through online. Please visit clicks here for further details. If you are not non-registered portal user, then click on LIC website click here and select the option payment through \'pay direct\'.
Installment premium stated in policy document do not contain any GST or service tax. The rates of GST are different for type of products. Rates are different for first year and subsequent years.
A grace period of 15 days are allowed, hence pay the premium within days of grace without waiting.
Kindly submit the requirements as mandated by LIC. You may kindly contact our servicing Branch in this regard.
Please check or contact our branch office to check the record for mobile number.
Yes, facility to raise loan under the policy is available sub to some conditions. Loan is based on acquired surrender value. '
Will you increase my policy premium as I age.
You can know your loan status by logging in our customer portal. If you are not already registered, register yourself click here to avail whole bunch of other facilities online!!!!'
LIC will not deduct any GST from loan amount.
The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has implemented an electronic payment service termed as National Automated Clearing House (NACH) for banks, financial institutions, Corporate and Government Departments. NACH, National Automated Clearing House, is a funds clearing platform set up by NPCI similar to the existing ECS of RBI. Centralized NACH solution or NACH is expected to consolidate the current multiple ECS systems and provide a framework for removal of local barriers/inhibitors and harmonization of standards and practices.
Under online loan, amount of loan will be settled through NEFT into your bank account directly.
You can repay the loan through your servicing Branch office or through online also.
There can be multiple reasons for not being able to make payment online. Policy is in lapsed condition, which is generally after 6 months from last premium due date. In such case, Kindly contact nearest LIC branch for revival of policy. Premium entered is incorrect in case of going through LIC Pay Direct. Premium has to be the basic premium (without any taxes) that is mentioned on the policy document. If you have taken any RIDER along with your policy, then payment has to be made within the grace period only. After grace period is over, the same cannot be accepted through online portal. The grace period is 30 days in case of YLY, HLY and QLY mode, whereas it is 15 days in case of ECS/NACH monthly mode.
You have to sign the form of assignment given in loan application form, fill it and paste it on policy document.
Yes, LIC sends final foreclosure of compulsory surrender of the policy before taking final action.
Fund Switch is the request for restructuring the existing fund composition and redirection restructures‚ the fund composition for the future premiums paid without affecting the existing funds.
Yes, the intimation of loan interest is added in the premium notices.
NEFT ensures secure, speedy and timely settlement of policy payments in your bank account. Also you are not required to pay any additional charges.
Generally, all types of policies excluding pension/ annuity/term type policy, can be assigned'
In with profit plans, bonus is disclosed, if any, after periodical valuations are allotted to the policy and are payable along with the contracted amount. It generally has higher premium than without profit plans. In \'without\' profit plan the contracted amount is paid without any addition of bonus. The premium for it is generally lower than with profit plans.
Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.
FUP is short form of First Unpaid Premium due date.
You can pay the premium by offline method or online method. For online payment, please click here. For offline payment, please visit your nearest LIC office. Please contact us at +91-02268276827. Our Call Centre Services are available 24*7. Also, we are available on WhatsApp - click here.
A conditionally assigned policy can be surrendered by the policyholder if the condition under the assignment is not operated.
Yes, you can use the loan amount for taking new policy on your own life.
If you hold bank account with any of the following banks -  HDFC Bank,  ICICI Bank,  Bank of Punjab,  Axis Bank, Federal Bank,  Corporation Bank (Union Bank of India) and Citibank  and have Net banking facility, you can register with the authorized bank.
In successive nomination, It is possible to have 3 or more nominees registered under the policy at one go which can give valid discharge to policy amount on death of life assured but the right of 2nd nominee and so on will come into operation after death of 1st nominee. under multiple nominee, Right of all nominees are equal or as per share specified for them.
Certified extract of Birth Certificate, School/ College certificate, Certificate of Baptism, Certified extract of service register in case Govt/ semi-govt, quasi govt employees, Identity card issued by Defense dept stating date of birth, Domicile certificate stating Date of Birth, Passport, PAN card issued by Income tax department, Driving license, Aadhar card issued by Govt. of India stating date of birth.
ID or Address proof of nominee is not required.
The additional payment received under Bill Payment is refunded in next Refund cycle i.e 2 / 3 days to the service provider who in turn credits the amount to the policy holder\'s account / credit card account. Hence the payment done through Debit card / Net banking is refunded in 3/ 4 days. Whereas for payments done through credit card will be show in the credit card statement for next cycle.
Title: Description: BillJunction.com has its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad & Pune. TimesofMoney.com has its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, & Bangalore. BillDesk.com has its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Pune, Baroda & Surat. They also have tie-ups with their partner banks viz. Bank of Baroda, IDBI Bank, ABN-AMRO Bank. '
The nomination is valid during the policy term and also after the date of maturity. In case, the life assured expire after the date of maturity but before receiving the policy money, then also nomination is valid.
On taking the loan under the policy, risk cover under the accident benefit or rider sum assured is not reduced.
At present, rate of interest is 9.5% simple interest if premium is paid within 6 month from due date.
Alteration is not allowed if Policyholder\'s age is 70 years or above.
You can find the premium calculator link click here'
Nomination can be done only by a policyholder who is a major holding policy in his own name.
Policies which are of ordinary mode of payment ie. Yearly  (Yly), Half-yearly  (Yly) or Quarterly  (Qly). nPolicies with mode of payments such as single premium, ordinary monthly  (Mly) and Salary savings scheme  (SSS) are not available for this facility. Lapsed policies or policies due for revival are not valid.
At present, No such facility is available.
(Note: Before registering for premier services, include all your policies for E-services using the option 'Add new policies'.) On the service registration page, click \'Premier services registration'. A link is generated and sent to your email id. Click and open the link, click 'premier services' On the Registration page, click open and generate registration form, Save and/or print the registration form, then sign it with date. Scan the registration form having your signature. Scan also your PAN card, Aadhaar card or Passport (but ensure their sizes are less than 100 kb) Upload these images and submit. The customer zone validates the registration. You\'ll get an SMS and email confirming the registration. Thereafter, you can use the premier services.
Depending upon the policy conditions for effecting an alteration in a policy a quotation fee/Alteration fee  (as the case may be) of Rs. 50 along with GST @ 18% may or may not be required.
Revival as such have no effect on existing nomination. Nomination remains same even after revival of the policy.
Sorry, No Data found.
Please visit your servicing branch for any query related to surrender of your policy.
On receipt of notice of assignment/reassignment, the following fees are to be charged for granting a written acknowledgment for receipt of such notice. Rs 50/- For policies issued in electronic form.  Rs 100/- For policies issued in other than electronic form.
We suggest fresh nomination in case of death of existing nominee.
 Yes, if you have subscribed for premier services.
Premium will be debited only after mandate is successfully validated by customers bank and the response is posted in LIC\'s database centre of the zone.
Online loan facility is for registering the loan request. Since, original policy document and other loan papers are to be submitted in original, you have to visit any LIC Branch near to you.
The risk of death or probability of dying of the person increases as the age go on increasing. To compensate such increasing risk, premium under the policy will increase for higher age .
For payment made using portal user id If your account is debited and receipt is not generated, It may be due to session timed out or any other technical reason. As mentioned in the message displayed at the time of premium payment, for such cases receipt is generated within 3-4 working days when the payment is received, and will be sent to the mail-id mentioned in the profile. However, If the date of payment is prior to at least a week, Kindly send the bank details where debit of premium is reflected and send a mail with bank statement to bo_eps1@licindia.com'
We try our best to keep you satisfied but if unfortunately at any point in time you are dissatisfied with our services you must give us feedback.  You can contact Branch Grievance Redressal Officer through telephone or write to them or even visit them (Monday 2.30 pm-4.30 pm without prior appointment). If you are registered on our portal you may lodge complaints by logging in with your user id here. '
There are no fees for revival of policy. However, interest on due premiums is charged. But you may require to pay fees for full medical reports and/or special reports as the case may be. For more details please contact your nearest branch, customer zone or agent.
Loan cannot be raised by the nominee as he/she is not having any title or legal rights under the policy. He/she is just a beneficiary who will receive policy proceeds.
Kindly, refer to the policy conditions printed on the back of policy document. If the policy document mentions condition of the assignment, then you can do so.
Multiple nominations can be done by policy holder where rights of all nominees are equal or as per share specified for them. Also if any of the nominees die, the share of the deceased nominee will go to his/her legal heirs.
After settlement of maturity claim under the policy, contract will come to end. Hence, loan cannot be granted.
Period for which revival under a policy is allowed depends upon date of commencement of policy. Policies taken on or after 01.01.2014 maximum period allowed to revive a policy is two years from date of FUP but before the expiry of the policy term. For the policies taken earlier to the said date, period of revival is five years but before the expiry of policy term.
Title: Description: Kindly use the options \'Forgot user-id\' and \'Forgot Password\' available on LIC website. For further help regarding login issues and any changes in online portal profile, you may mail at portalsupport@licindia.com links.
'
You may assign the policy provided policy conditions contains such a clause. In order to raise the loan, policy holder can keep the policy with the bank as a collateral security / property.
Please download NEFT Form click here'
As a contemporary initiative to give thrust to digital transactions, We announce a waiver of convenience fee on credit card transactions for payment of renewal premium, advance premium, repayment of loan and loan interest w.e.f 01/12/2019. For payment through Debit Card, Net-Banking and wallets, A flat fee is there which is absorbed by LIC and thus nothing is charged from customers. Thus, all digital collections will be free of charges for customers across all collecting systems (card less payment platforms and card dip/swipe on POS machines).
You can nominate your minor child as nominee but you have to also appoint major person as an appointee.
The person legally entitled to receive the policy monies should give intimation of death of the policyholder to the servicing Branch. The requirement for the claim are as given below:1. Claim Form \'A\' in Form No.3783If policy has run for 3 years or more from date or risk, claim Form no.3783Amay be used.2. Certified extract from death register.3. The original policy document with deedss of assignments if any. Additional requirement may be required under a policy according to the status of the policy. Please contact your servicing Branch for details.
The person legally entitled to receive the policy monies should give intimation of death of the policyholder to the servicing Branch. The requirement for the claim are as given below:1. Claim Form \'A\' in Form No.3783If policy has run for 3 years or more from date or risk, claim Form no.3783Amay be used.2. Certified extract from death register.3. The original policy document with deedss of assignments if any. Additional requirement may be required under a policy according to the status of the policy. Please contact your servicing Branch for details.
DGH is declaration of good health. This is to be submitted by the policyholder at the time of revival of the policy along with other documents. You can Download DGH here '
The person who transfers his right under the policy ( life assured/policyholder) is called Assignor. The person to whom the rights are transferred is called Assignee.
Yes. Charges as fixed by the card service provider apply.
Facility of payment of premium through ATM can be availed by submitting registration forms to the authorised bank. ICICI bank provides this facility to all customers registered for direct pay.
Same nomination is valid and will continue after vesting of pension policy/policies.
The registration of assignment may be rejected if assignment is of nature as, a) Not bonafide b) Not in the interest of the policyholder c) Not in public interest  d) Assignment is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy'
Yes, Click 'profile management' application. Then click 'family information', add the name and other details about the spouse and/or children. Then click 'basic services', Click "Add new policies" and add the policies.
1. You can check the loan amount you are eligible for through online e-Services. 2. Policyholder can type ASKLIC policy no > type of query i.e.  prem/rev/bonus/loan/nom (premium/ Loan/ Bonus/ Revival/ Nomination) on his mobile and send it to code 9222492224 via SMS to get the necessary information via SMS. n 3. You can send SMS \'LICHELP policy no >\' to 9222492224, you will get a call from our representative. n 4. You can also visit your servicing branch.
Usually its at Maturity of your policy, However, it depends on the benefits available under your policy.
Grace period is a period of one calendar month but not less than 30 days for payment of yearly, half-yearly or quarterly premiums and 15 days for monthly mode of premium payment.
Please contact our Branch office for any service you required in respect of your policy. You are always welcomed in our office. But my earnest request is to continue the premium payment. You may contact our Branch.
A grace period of 15 days are allowed for monthly mode premiums.
Please select one of the plans below'
You can check out the latest NAV of your funds here'
You will get loan under the policy provided you have submitted requirements for duplicate policy.
Any living person can be an assignee provided he is not subject to legal disqualification. n n Accordingly, a judge, legal practitioner or officer connected with a court from purchasing an actionable claim cannot act as assignee. The living person includes any company or association or body of individuals.
You can visit your nearest branch for revival of your policy. As of now facility for online revival is not available.
Yes, the policy holder can visit axis bank & IDBI Bank for payment of premium through Cash or their banker\'s cheque.
Customer Zone operational timings:Monday to Friday: 08.00 a.m. to 08.00 p.m.Saturday: 10.00 a.m. to 06.00 p.m.
The appointee should be a major person. The person appointed as appointee should not be necessarily a guardian of the minor nominee.
Yes, premium can be paid at cash counter in Cash or Cheque during the pendency of the mandate.
No, separate mandate is to be used for each policy.
The installment premium under the policy depends on age of life assured, product, term of the policy, premium paying term, type of policy whether with profit or without profit, mode of the premium payment, riders selected under the policy.
During minority of life assured, he/she can not make nomination. But after completing the age of 18, nomination can be effected.
You can visit your nearest branch for revival of your policy. As of now facility for online revival is not available.
Yes, the policy holder can visit axis bank & IDBI Bank for payment of premium through Cash or their banker\'s cheque.
Customer Zone operational timings:Monday to Friday: 08.00 a.m. to 08.00 p.m.Saturday: 10.00 a.m. to 06.00 p.m.
The appointee should be a major person. The person appointed as appointee should not be necessarily a guardian of the minor nominee.
Yes, premium can be paid at cash counter in Cash or Cheque during the pendency of the mandate.
No, separate mandate is to be used for each policy.
The installment premium under the policy depends on age of life assured, product, term of the policy, premium paying term, type of policy whether with profit or without profit, mode of the premium payment, riders selected under the policy.
During minority of life assured, he/she can not make nomination. But after completing the age of 18, nomination can be effected.
On visit to any LIC Branch office, loan quotation will be available to you.
Yes, you can avail information through online loan facility.
The SMS charge will depend on service provider of your mobile phone & will be borne by the policy holder.
If loan is fully recovered from survival benefit claim, then you should get original policy document.
Bonus payment is made only at the time of Maturity of the policy or death of the policy holder, However survival benefits (money back) shall be paid as mentioned in the policy bond.
There are about 60 reasons for mandate rejection. 30 to 40 percent rejections are due to signature mismatch. Kindly check your signature in bank database and that done on NACH mandate.nFor other rejections kindly contact your policy servicing LIC branch.
No fee is payable for making nomination at inception of policy. Also, you can change the nomination which was done at taking policy. For this, you will be charged alteration fee + GST.
No alteration fee is required where change in mode of payment of premiums is to lower frequency Eg. Changing from Quarterly To Yearly. Whereas if policy is converted to SSS policy then in that case no fee is charged. Otherwise, alteration fee of Rs. 50 along with GST @18% will be charged.
If the nominee is minor, his/her legal natural guardian like father or mother will receive the amount'
Repayment above 50000 can only be made by cheque or DD as per KYC guidelines. '
Yes, you can pay the premium in advance 12 months before due date in any financial year. However, no rebate will be allowed for such advance payment. Such advance premium will be adjusted on due date only.
Loan can be repaid anytime after taking loan. If within six months of taking loan, Interest will be charged for Full six months.
Nominee can be anyone to whom the policy holder wants the financial benefits to accrue in case of his/her death during policy tenure. General practice is to appoint spouse, Children or Parents. The insured person can nominate one or more person as his/her nominee.
You do not have to pay any fee for taking loan quotation.
You can take help of your agent for this purpose. But you can directly walk into any LIC office and obtain the necessary forms and guidance.
LIC will grant the loan under the policy if policy has acquired paid up value. If premiums have not been paid under the policy after grace period, then quantum of loan will be 85% of surrender value.
A grace period of one calendar month but not less than 30 days will be allowed for payment of yearly or half-yearly or quarterly premiums under plans other than term assurance products.
The extra charges for non-standard age proof is removed from next policy anniversary premium due date.
If you are using the internet, you can avail the facility of self-service on a number of things. All you have to do is visit click here & Register in the Customer Portal. Then You can - Pay premium.Get status reports of the policy including Bonus accrual.Get Revival quotation if the policy has lapsed.Get a loan quotation.Get surrender quotation.Use the on-line Insurance advisor and premium calculator.Get Premium paid certificate.  Register Grievances/Complaints.
Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.
Yes ! I am very much alive and with you only.
Registration through bill pay can be done through the bank/service provider\'s website or through a physical form issued by the Bank/Service Provider.nOn being approached, the service provider obtains a written mandate from the Policy holder, authorizing Bank/Service provider to realize the billed amount directly from the bank account. The policy holder have to give the bank account details and other requisite details as required by the service provider. ATM facility is available with AXIS BANK and CORPORATION BANK.
To raise the loan for housing purpose or for business purpose, policyholder can keep the policy with assignee as property. Hence, policy document can be treated as document to raise loan if any emergency needs.
In the Absolute assignment, the right/ title under the policy is permanently transferred to another person. n n In the Conditional assignment, the rights/ title under the policy will get transferred to another person i.e assignee on happening of certain event.
The loan amount available to you will be 90% of surrender value under in-force policy.The amount of loan depends on type of plan, policy term and premium paying term. Hence, it may vary as per your policy plan.
Loan can be paid back as desired by you anytime along with interest as on date either at your servicing Branch office or through online portal.
Re-assignment is transferring the title / rights under the policy back to original policyholder from assignee.
The process of sending e receipt with digital signature is discontinued w. e. f. November 2014. This e receipt is valid for income tax purpose.
Yes, you can register nomination under in-force policy or lapsed policy also.
Make payment of up to date premiums for the policy (all the dues) and submit the fresh NACH mandate to your policy servicing branch.
An assignment of a policy may be defined as an instrument whereby the beneficial interest, title and right under a policy is transferred by one person to another person.
In policies which are giving life long benefits like pension, Whole life survival benefit this type of nomination is beneficial.
Sorry, No Data found.
Each individuals insurance needs and requirements are different from that of the others. LICs Insurance plans are designed to suit you individually and give you the most suitable options that can fit your requirement. Please click here and fill out your details. This will help you in deciding which plan is most suitable for you according to your age, occupation, income and insurance needs.
Only Non-ULIP, in force policies can be registered through bill pay. Mly mode is not accepted through this payment mode.
Since some fields on the mandate form are pre-printed with values specific to the division, it can be taken from any Branch of that division where policy is being serviced. There is no need to submit NACH mandate form for existing ECS policies.
As the payment is received by LIC through the bank or the service provider, same may not be received on the same day of payment by the policy holder, Hence there is short time-lag between the date of debit of the bank account and the date when the policy reflects the updated status.
Yes, at present some forms can be downloaded and/or printed and you need not go to a branch office for same.
Yes, age is one of the factor who decide the premium to be charged for the taking policy.
The requirements for granting a loan are as under :-Application for loan with an endorsement of terms and conditions of the loan being placed on the policy.   Policy to be assigned absolutely in favour of the Corporation.   Your original Policy Bond   Policy should be in force or at-least should have continued for a minimum period of three years. However, we are providing an option for an online / offline loan facility too.
No. LIC bears the convenience fee chargeable in this case.
The repayable amount should be less than o/s loan interest due as on that date. Minimum amount should be Rs. 2000 or 25% of loan amount whichever is more.
On maturity date, policy contract will come to end. Hence policy document will be cancelled at our end.
You can now repay your loan and loan interest online on LIC\'s website. If you are a registered user you can login into customer portal or even if you are not registered you can repay using \'pay direct\' option. Please click here to repay loan online. Or, You can visit your servicing branch and repay your loan.
After registering the loan request, you have to visit any LIC branch office near to you with loan request number and loan requirements shown on website.
Sorry, No Data found.
Sorry, No Data found.
You can change the nomination which was done while taking the policy as many times as you want. For change of nomination, You have to send an application in the prescribed format of change of nomination to your servicing branch. You will be charged alteration fee + GST and fresh nomination will be effected.
Under HUF policies , karta of HUF takes the policy on the life of life assured. Hence, life assured is not having any legal right'
Absolutely! Further loans on policies are allowed after deduction of earlier outstanding loan amount with loan interest.
Using the login & password provided by the bank/service provider, the policyholder can log on to account page at the bank/service providers\' website. Policy holder has to add LIC as biller with the policy details and other requisite information. In general, Policy holder has to enter the policy number, The instalment premium (basic premium - as mentioned in policy document), valid email-id and any other information. This is a one-time process for each policy.
You can take prints of policy bond or details of the policy like policy schedule, policy terms and conditions, benefit illustrations, Mini statement having details like Name, Contact Details, Payment terms, Sum Assured, Premium and Nominee details, etc. Both basic and premier services allow some printing to be done.
The requirements for applying for a loan are as under:nA duly filled loan application form.Your original Policy Bond.NEFT form with a copy of Passbook/cheque/Cancelled cheque. n KYC proof. n n You can apply for loan in branch as well as online. You can also check the eligible loan amount through e-services or through SMS services.
Assignment is made for the purpose of loan or against security, to an insurer or other transferee or assignee, as the case may be, shall not cancel the nomination. n But, it shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the interest of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be in the policy.
No. Loan can be closed only in branch where Policy bond is submitted.
Types of assignment are: Absolute or Conditional'
As per new amendment, policy can be partly assigned out of total sum assured under the policy. Assignor needs to specifically mention the nature of transfer or assignment i.e. is whole or in part. In case the consideration amount is not specified in the assignment form, the policy will be assumed to be assigned wholly.
Title: Description: Duplicate payment made through Bill Pay will be refunded to our service provider to be credited back to your account. The refund process shall take 6 to 8 days.  Also,If receipts for both the transactions have been received by customer, then the excess payment made through Bill desk/Online portal will be refunded by servicing branch of LIC through NEFT. We request you to kindly adopt only one mode of premium payment. If standing instructions for premium payment are given to any of the bank, Premium should not be paid through other modes to avoid double payment. For further queries please contact bo_eps1@licindia.com links.
WHY BUY ONLINE?For a customer who is comfortable using the internet and has some experience of having made an online purchase, buying life insurance online is an easy and a logical option. It\'s fast, easy and secure - just fill in the details and make the payment through Internet Banking. Apart from the convenience, online policy is also cheaper than the offline version as online rebate is also available. View online plans content: click here Buy tech term plan content: click here'
Redirection or Premium Redirection refers to changing the proportions in which your future contributions will get invested into the different funds chosen by you. It is to be noted that redirection will only impact the way future contributions are invested and does not affect the composition of existing amounts lying in different funds.
On visit to LIC websitewww.licindia.com, Policyholder will login through LIC\'s Premier e-services by click on \'Service  Registration\' and select \'Online Loan Request\' Option from the drop down menu.
NEFT is National Electronic Fund Transfer. It is a RBI operated system that facilitates to transfer a fund from one account of any bank branch to another account of any bank branch. This system is used by LIC to electronically transfer your policy payments to your bank account.
Kindly submit the requirements as mandated by LIC. You may kindly contact our servicing Branch in this regard.
Don\'t Worry, You can revive your policy by raising loan under the policy, if it\'s eligible for loan. Similarly if the policy is eligible for payment of survival benefit, the same can be utilized for reviving your policy. In case amount loan/survival amount is less than the amount of revival, balance amount has to be paid by the policyholder. Disclaimer: These revival provisions are indicative, for further details; please contact Branch Office/Customer Zone for further details.
If you select yearly or half-yearly mode of payment for paying the premium, then we offer some % as  concession in premium at the start of the contract. Any specific concession or incentive is not offered if you pay the premium on due date.
For non-standard age proof maximum sum assured can be taken with or without medical will be Rs. 5 lakh only upto age 35 years. However, for age 36 to 45 years, It will be 3 lakh. For age 46 to 50, the maximum sum assured can be purchased is 2 lakh only.
Yes, you can submit the standard age proof where non-standard age proof was submitted earlier.
Reinstatement of a paid up policy, which has been written off to loan, may be allowed without any evidence of health if reinstatement is applied for within 6 months of the date of surrender.
.IPP cell Contact Nos: n West Bengal, Sikkim, North-East States & Andaman Nicobar: n 033-2212-4932 / 9748 / 4225 / 7427. n n Bihar, Jharkhand & Orissa: 0612-655 0258. n n Uttar Pradesh & Uttarakhand: 0512-237-4146 . Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthann 011-2884-4157 / 79. n n Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarhn 0755-267-6221 / 267-6396 . n n Gujarat & DNHn 079-2550-8703 / 05 . n n Maharashtra & Goan 022-6659-8148 / 8277 / 8064 . n n Andhra Pradesh n 040-2324-1948 . Karnatakan 080-2296-6550 . Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry & Lakshadweepn 044-2861-6024 / 5 / 6 / 7 links.
Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.
Yes, Branch office will return the policy document to you sub to confirmation of realisation of cheque payment.
Yes, if policy holder has registered his mobile number with LIC, then periodical SMS is being sent for paying premium due/ loan interest.
Loan can be granted minimum of Rs.1000/- and nearest rupees thereafter.
Alteration in mode of payment is allowed except under certain plans where only yearly & half-yearly mode are allowed.No alteration fee is required where change in mode of payment of premiums is to lower frequency, Changing from uqarterly to yearly. Otherwise, alteration fee will be required.
The installment premium under the policy depends on age of life assured, product, term of the policy, premium paying term, type of policy whether with profit or without profit, mode of the premium payment, riders selected under the policy.
Wonderful as always. Thanks for asking.
No, The right or control over the policy will remain with policyholder or life assured only.
Within 6 months from first unpaid premium, you can pay premium partly out of total number of dues. However, I recommend for payment of all arrears of premium with late fee in one go. This will ensure continued life cover.
Options generally available are as below. For available options under your annuity plan, please refer your policy bond. n n Option A: Annuity is payable till annuitant is alive & stops on death n Option B/C/D/E: Annuity continues till the end of the guaranteed period [5/10/15/20 years respectively] or till death, whichever is later. If death takes place during the guaranteed period, The nominee gets annuity till the end of this predetermined period. n Option F: Annuity for life with the return of Purchase Price on death. n Option G:Annuity for Life increasing @ 3% every n year. n Option H: Annuity for Life where, on death, the spouse gets 50% Annuity for life. n Option I: Annuity for Life where, on death, spouse gets 100 % Annuity for life.
By using bill pay facility, premium can be paid through the net banking or credit cards either by giving standing instructions or paying directly through Banks website.
Your liability of outstanding loan and loan interest proportionately gets reduced. Further you have to pay loan interest on reduced o/s loan amount.
After issue of policy, Nomination can be made only by an endorsement on the back of policy itself and such a nomination is required to be notified to the corporation and registered in its records.
Please visit the Servicing Branch of your Policy to get the requirements, however, you may download the maturity claim form here. here'
There are no separate charges for NEFT registration.
If policy is in full force by paying all arrears of premium, then quantum of loan available will be more.
Generally LIC do not refuse loan under the policy unless it is not available under the plan'
The required documents for assignment are:1. Original Policy Document duly signed over the proper text of assignment.2. Notice of Assignment3. Notice Acknowledgement Fee'
Premium can be paid online using LIC mobile app on windows and android phones.
If policy is under MWP act, then policy holder can not raise the loan. Trustee under the policy can raise the loan provided he has been authorised.
It\'s extremely saddening to hear about the loss of a dear one. In case of this unfortunate event, the nominee may file a Death Claim at the Servicing Branch. You can find the relevant Claim forms here. here'
If you hold bank account with any of the following banks -  HDFC Bank,  ICICI Bank,  Bank of Punjab,  Axis Bank, Federal Bank,  Corporation Bank (Union Bank of India) and Citibank  and have Netbanking facility, you can register with the authorised bank.
Nominee is not having any title under the policy. Thus, cannot raise loan under the policy.
You will get loan under the policy provided you have submitted requirements for duplicate policy.
Consent of nominee is not required.
Yes, you can pay the part amount of loan at any point of time with outstanding interest due upto last HLY due and loan interest on part repayment of loan amount.
One can pay premium online through -n Credit Cards (Visa/MasterCard)n  Debit Cards (including RUPAY) n  Wallets n  UPI  (AXIS, SCB, BHIM)n  Net-Banking.
You can cancel the nomination without any consent of nominee and can nominate afresh.
If premium under a policy is not paid within days of grace, the policy lapses. The policy can be revived by paying arrears of premium along with late fee subject to submission of health requirements if applicable under your policy. For further details you may contact your branch office or Customer Zone. Details are available on our website click here'
Loan Cum Revival is a facility where you can revive your policy by raising loan under the policy provided it is eligible for loan. In case amount loan amount is less than the amount of revival, balance amount needs to be paid.
Age is a very important factor in insurance contract. The eligibility criteria to enter into an insurance contract for a particular plan & term, premiums to charged etc. is based on age . hence, submission of age proof is must for taking policy.
Yes, some franchisees are authorised to collect the premium on behalf of LIC. At present, the approved franchisees are :nCSC network (common service network e-governance service india ltd)nAP online- for andhra pradesh state onlyn MP online- for madhay paradesh state only n Suvidhaa infoservices pvt ltd.
EMI facility is not available for repayment of loan.
We will accept lump sum amount towards proportionate adjustment of loan amount and outstanding loan interest over the said loan amount from date of last o/s loan interest due up to date of repayment of proportionate loan amount subject to some conditions.
I am busy inside working on it.
Well ! Google maps are the smartest and the best to answer this query !'
Loan can be raised by the policyholder under his/her policy without the consent of the nominee.
Original policy document will required to be assigned in favour of LIC for granting loan under the policy. So, you need to submit the duplicate policy requirements. After getting duplicate policy, loan will be granted to you'
Assignment can be done for two or more persons. Where the policy is assigned in favor of two or more persons, the assignees will take as tenants-in-common or joint tenants according to their interest as expressed in the deed of assignment.
Any person competent to contract & having title to the property OR authority to transfer the property if it is not of his own, may assign a policy. Every person is competent to contract who is of the age of majority according to the law, who is of sound mind and not disqualified from contracting by any law can assign the policy.
Yes ! I am very much alive and with you only.
You can revive your policy by paying due premiums and interest on them and providing adequate proof of good health. You can also make use of LOAN-CUM-REVIVAL /SB-CUM-REVIVAL/INSTALLMENT REVIVAL.  1. LOAN-CUM-REVIVAL /SB-CUM-REVIVAL:  You can revive your policy by raising loan under the policy if it\'s eligible for loan. Similarly if the policy is eligible for payment of survival benefit, the same can be utilized for reviving your policy. In case amount loan/survival amount is less than the amount of revival, the balance amount has to be paid. n 2. INSTALLMENT REVIVAL:  In case of installment revival you will not be required to pay all arrears of premiums in one go. The amount required to revive the policy will be spread in the next 2 year\'s installment premium and the installment premium will be increased for the next 2 years. '
 As a registered user, at first you get only basic services like: Paying the premium onlineSeeing policy status, etc. Thereafter, you should register for premier services like: Getting a policy loan online Seeing the scanned image of your proposal papers or policy bond Seeing claim details, etc.
Yes, if your need of loan is nor of full loan available under the policy, then you can apply the loan for exact amount.
Stamped/ unstamped self declaration about date of birth, declaration by elder of proposer, service record where date of birth is not mentioned, horoscope, ESIS card, marriage certificate of muslims, voter ID, certificate issued by gram panchayat, ration card.
It is preferable to have nomination under joint life plans also.
Nomination is auto cancelled in case of assignment.
Women who work and earn an income are treated at par with men. In other cases, a restrictive clause is imposed, only if the age of the female is up to 30 years and if she does not have an income attracting Income Tax.
There is no need to nominate under MWP act policies as trust is formed to take care in this case.
You can see your policy bond for this purpose or register your self on our portal and get confirmation regarding the same.
Please select any search option.
Existence Certificate is a document signed by a policyholder saying that he/she is alive to receive the annuity under his/her policy.This EC has to be submitted every year for the continuation of annuity. However, under option‚ (Annuity for Life with the return of Purchase Price on death), this EC has to be submitted once in every 5 years.
An appointee may be appointed to receive the policy moneys in the event of death of the life assured during the minority of the nominee. The appointee should be a major person. The appointment of the appointee is valid under the Indian Insurance Amendment act 1950.
NACH (National Automated clearing house) is a centralised system, launched with an aim to consolidate multiple ECS systems running across the country. It facilitates interbank, high volume, electronic transactions which are repetitive and periodic in nature. To avail this facility you can obtain the NACH mandate form from your nearest branch office and after choosing your mode of payment viz., monthly, quarterly, half-yearly or yearly you can submit the duly filled form there.
There is no need to bring any surety for granting loan under the policy.
Where an assignment is made in favour of minor, the policy can not be dealt with during the minority of the assignee, even with consent of natural guardian or appointed guardian. n n This means minor assignee cannot raise a loan, surrender or further assign the policy during his/her minority.