What is the name of the person who is the policyholder of the LIC’s NEW JEEVAN ANAND PLAN?
What is the purpose of this letter?
What is the purpose of this advertisement?
What is the last thing you should do before canceling a policy?
What is the contact details of the Grievance Redressal Officer/Ombudsman?
What should you do if you change your address?
What is the current provisions of Section 39?
What is the purpose of the advertisement?
What is the name of the corporation?
What is the benefit of the policy?
What is the policy number of the policy?
What is the date of payment of last premium for a base policy?
What is the last date mentioned in the policy?
What is the name of the person who is named in the insurance policy?
What is the age of the person who is the beneficiary of the policy?
What is the term for transferring rights and benefits?
What is the basic benefit of a base policy?
What is the name of the person who is the beneficiary of the policy?
What is the name of the entity that determines continued insurability?
What is the date of commencement of risk?
What is the last word in the paragraph?
What is the first action mentioned?
What is the term for grace period?
What is the minimum guaranteed amount of Surrender Value payable to the policyholder on surrender of the policy?
What is the status of the policy when due premium is not paid within the grace period?
What is the term for a person who has not completed 18 years of age?
What is the option to take Death Benefit in instalments?
Policyholder/Life Assured chooses to receive what?
What is the policy term?
What is the difference between a policy year and a policy anniversary?
What is the term used anywhere in this Policy Document?
What is the term of the policy?
What is the condition of a policyholder who does not pay the premium?
What is Rider Sum Assured?
What is the difference between Sum Assured on Death and Sum Assured on Maturity?
What is the difference between surrender value and surrender value?
What does the "U" in "U" stand for?
What is the policy term of LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan?
What is the maximum amount of the death benefit?
What is the benefit of surviving the stipulated Date of Maturity?
What is the name of the policy that has four riders?
What is the maximum number of riders that can be availed under LIC's Accidental Death and Disability Benefit Rider?
What is the age nearer birthday of the Life Assured?
What is the minimum age for a person to be eligible for a simple reversionary bonus?
What happens if the policy is surrendered?
What is the policyholder required to pay in case of death of life assured?
What is the maximum grace period for payment of yearly or half yearly or quarterly premiums?
What is the grace period for a life insurance policy?
What is the age of the Life Assured as declared in the Proposal?
What is the difference between the premiums for the correct age and the original premiums?
What is the difference between the premiums for the correct age and the original premiums?
What is the purpose of the paragraph?
What is the first condition mentioned in the regulation?
What is the first thing that the insurance company will do?
What is the policy called that is wholly void?
date of policy becoming paid-up is payable on life assured’s death. This “Sum Assured on Maturity” under the paid-up policy shall be reduced to such a sum called what?
What is the policy term?
What is the policy holder entitled to?
What is the policy holder's responsibility?
What is the policy based on?
What is the difference between a Rider and a Policy?
What is the condition of the insurance policy?
What is the policyholder/life assured/proposer required to provide?
What is the maximum surrender value of a policy?
What is the guarantee value?
What is the policy term?
What is the policy loan available for?
What is the maximum loan that can be granted during the policy term?
What is the interest rate based on?
What is the difference between surrender value and loan outstanding amount along with interest?
What is the first event that can cause the policy to terminate?
What is the policy cancelled on?
What is the maximum period of time that a policyholder can return a policy?
What is the option to take death benefit in instalments?
How much is the minimum amount for different modes of payments?
What is the maximum amount of money that can be claimed in instalments?
What is the option that can be exercised by the Life Assured?
What is the minimum amount of instalments required for LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan?
How much amount should be paid in instalments?
What is the first payment made under Settlement Option against Maturity Benefit?
What is the difference between the amount of the lump sum and the discounted value of all the future instalments due?
What is the other part of the document?
What is the current provisions of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938?
What is the first provision of the Insurance Act, 1938?
What is the maximum amount of money that can be claimed in case of suicide?
What is the maximum amount payable if the life assured commits suicide?
What is the maximum amount of money that can be paid under LIC's New Jeevan Anand Plan?
What is the amount of tax payable?
What is the age of the claimant?
What is the first step in a life insurance policy?
What is the reason for surrender of the policy?
What is the reason for the force majeure?
What is the first piece of information that you will need to read?
What is the name of the Act that is applicable to this policy?
What is the name of the website that customers can use to register complaints?
What is the name of the committee that deals with claims disputes?
What is the address for sending the complaint through courier / letter?
What are the types of complaints that the Ombudsman can consider?
What are the types of complaints that can be filed against insurers?
What is the first thing that the IRDAI is required to do?
What is the purpose of the advertisement?
What is the requirement for an insurance endorsement?
What is the reason for refusal to act upon the endorsement?
What is the purpose of this section?
What is the first thing that the insurer must do before a policy is transferred?
where is the policy being serviced?
What is the name of the person who receives the notice?
What is the first thing that the insurer must do?
transfer is not subject to what?
What is the condition of an absolute assignment or transfer?
What is the condition of the assignment?
What is the policyholder entitled to do?
What is the minimum age for a nominee to receive the money secured by the policy?
What is the first thing that must be done before a nomination can be made?
What is the purpose of a nomination?
What is the definition of a loan?
What is the definition of a loan?
What is the term of the policy?
What is the name of the person who is named as the nominee?
What is the first condition of the policy?
What is the term for the holder of a succession certificate?
What is the first section of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015?
What is the first section of the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015?
What is the purpose of the passage?
what is the first time period that can be used to call in question a life insurance policy?
What is the purpose of the sentence?
What is the duty of the insured or his agent to speak?
what is the onus of disproving?
What is the first time period that can be used to call in question a policy of life insurance?
What is the purpose of the provision?
What is the purpose of the onus on the insurer?
What is the purpose of this paragraph?
What is the name of the document that is a part of the LIC’s New Jeevan Anand Plan?
