'Query: Do you charge late fee on delayed premium?'
'Response: If premium is not paid within days of grace, then late fee will be charged as per fixed rates.'
'Query: I need maturity claim requirements.'
'Response: Please submit your Discharged Receipt in Form No.3825 with original policy document atleast one month before the due date so that the payment is received timely. The servicing Branch usually sends maturity claim intimations two months in advance.If you have not received any intimation for your claim due in the next two months, please contact the servicing Branch immediately.'
'Query: What is single premium policy?'
'Response: Single premium policy means just pay it and forget it. Single premium can be termed as discounted value of premiums payable regularly for entire policy term.'
'Query: Can I change nomination through will?'
'Response: Nomination can be effected through will. But for its execution probate of will is required.'
'Query: What is the minimum amount of loan can be repaid?'
'Response: Minimum loan to be repaid is Rs.50/- and in multiple of Rs.10/-.'
'Query: What do you mean by non-standard age proof?'
'Response: Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.'
'Query: When is my next premium due?'
'Response: You can know your policy details viz, next due date, amount payable etc on our customer portal. You can login to see the details or if you are already not a registered user, you can register here:- Click here'
'Query: Premium which i pay is for the period completed or in advance?'
'Response: Under insurance contract, premium is accepted for future and not for past period. Hence, you pay the premium for next future period till end of next premium due as per chosen mode of premium payment.'
'Query: I am getting monthly disability benefit under the policy, whether i will get loan under the policy?'
'Response: Yes, you are eligible to get loan under the policy.'
'Query: I paid the premium twice by mistake, what should I do now?'
'Response: Duplicate payment is being refunded to our service provider to be credited back to your account. The refund process may take 6 to 8 days.For further queries please contact bo_eps1@licindia.com'
'Query: Whether any subsidy is available for repaying the loan from Govt of India?'
'Response: Sorry, No Data found.'
'Query: What benefit I will get , if I pay the loan proportionately?'
'Response: Your liability of outstanding loan and loan interest proportionately gets reduced. Further you have to pay loan interest on reduced o/s loan amount.'
'Query: How can I pay the premium in online mode or through portal payment?'
'Response: Title: Description: Premium can be paid through LIC portal using net banking facility, UPI/ BHIM, e-wallets, VISA/ Master credit/debit cards. For card payment, terms and conditions applicable should be checked.  For online payment of premium please visit our website www.licindia.in. digitally signed receipt is issued online and sent through e-mail. '
'Query: My policy money has not been credited to my account, where should I contact?'
'Response: I would request you to please check whether your bank details are registered with us. Payments of Survival Benefit will be done provided you have registered your bank details in the servicing branch of LIC. links.n n If your bank details are not registered then kindly download the NEFT form here here and submit the same at your nearest LIC Branch along with a cancelled cheque or photocopy of your bank passbook.'
'Query: I have fully repaid my outstanding loan, still I have not received my policy document back to me. What I should do'
'Response: Please enquire with your servicing Branch office where you have submitted policy document for loan.'
'Query: Can trust or Institute become nominee for life insurance policy?'
'Response: Nomination in favour of any other person/ institution other than your close relative will be treated as \'nomination in favour of stranger\'. Hence, with due diligence, LIC may allow the same.'
'Query: Whether I will be required to give the reason for which purpose I am taking the loan under the policy?'
'Response: For taking loan under the policy, policyholder is not required to give any reason.'
'Query: I have taken loan under the policy and I wish to transfer the policy to another Branch.'
'Response: We will transfer outstanding loan to your new servicing Branch and there is no need to repay the loan interest first for getting policy transferred to another Branch.'
'Query: Can I submit Cancelled cheque with NEFT form?'
'Response: You are required to submit either a cancelled blank cheque leaf or the photocopy of the page of the Passbook/Cheque book where details of the Bank account are mentioned along with the NEFT mandate form.'
'Query: Where can I get pannel doctor address?'
'Response: To know about LIC panel doctors in your city please click on the below link'
'Query: Is there limit to premium amount payable through credit card ?'
'Response: Yes. Premium should be within the credit limit for the credit given by the credit card providers. LIC has tie-up for premium payment upto Rs.1 lakh through Axis bank credit card.'
'Query: Where can I get the death claim form?'
'Response: You may download the claim forms here:Claim Form \'A\' - 3783 - If policy has run for less than 3 years from the date of risk.Claim Form No. 3783A - If policy has run for 3 years or more from the date of risk.'
'Query: Compare products'
'Response: Please select plans below'
'Query: Whether intimation about mandate acceptance/rejection is given to customer?'
'Response: SMS is sent to customer for acceptance as well as rejection of mandate. Relevant letter is emailed to the customer for rejection of mandate wherever email-id is available and printed letter is sent to the customers where no valid email address is captured. Letters are printed at NACH Centers in LIC.'
'Query: If i pay the premium in advance , whether i will get any incentive or rebate as early bird?'
'Response: As per IRDA guidelines, LIC can not offer any incentive on advance premium. But note that for yearly and Half-yearly mode of premium payment, LIC has already given concession.'
'Query: How much time is taken for the registration through bill pay?'
'Response: It is a one time process and forms are different for different banks/service providers. After submission of data to the bank/service provider the same is received by PCMC within 3-4 days for which confirmation/rejection is conveyed. Total time taken for registration may extend up to 10/12 days.'
'Query: At what age should I purchase a Life Insurance Policy?'
'Response: You should buy Life Insurance as soon as possible, and definitely as soon as you start earning. Buy when you are young so that your family\'s future is secure and you get insurance at a cheaper cost. In insurance-cum-investment plans, buying early also gives a greater chance for your wealth to grow.'
'Query: If premium is paid after 6 month, what is rate of interest charged for calculation of late fee?'
'Response: If premium is paid after 6 months, rate of interest will be 9.5% but compounding on half-yearly basis.'
'Query: How I can pay premium in offline mode?'
'Response: You can pay the premium by visiting any LIC Branch office, by registering policy under NACH mode, by registering the policy under Bill pay facility, through ATM of selected banks.'
'Query: Why revival of policy is required?'
'Response: If policy is not revived within a stipulated time period and claim arises, policyholder or beneficiary will not get full benefit of the cover as per the terms and conditions of the policy. To enjoy the full benefits and protection provided by the life insurance policy it is advisable to revive the policy.'
'Query: I want to check outstanding loan.'
'Response: If you are registered with LIC\'s customer portal you can check outstanding loan under registered polices. Please  click here for customer portal.'
'Query: Bonus declared for 2018-19?'
'Response: You can find year-wise declared bonus rates here.'
'Query: Whether assignment can be done in favour of minor?'
'Response: Assignment can be done in favour of minor life but policy cannot be assigned during minority of life assured.'
'Query: After taking loan, whether nomination under the policy will get cancelled?'
'Response: Nomination under the policy will not get cancelled.'
'Query: I want to change my address in my policy.'
'Response: For change of address you can give written application/Request form and Proof of address in original for verification & ID proof along with self attested photocopy of address proof to your branch office, Where the change will be done in the policy master records.'
'Query: Are there separate charges for NEFT registration?'
'Response: There are no separate charges for NEFT registration.'
'Query: Why I should do assignment?'
'Response: It is not compulsory for every policy holder to do assignment like nomination. If the policy holder wishes to raise a loan for housing purpose or business purpose and the lender is demanding some guarantee or property to be mortgaged, then the policy holder can assign the policy.'
'Query: What is date of commencement.'
'Response: Date of Commencement or risk Commencement date is the date at which Life Assured Risk has been accepted, It is the date on which the Policy contract has begun.'
'Query: What is GSV?'
'Response: It is the amount of surrender value which is payable in case the policyholder has chosen complete withdrawal of policy or to discontinue the policy contract before the end of the policy term.nFor this surrender value to accrue, The minimum number of year‚ premiums will be required to be paid as stated in non-forfeiture regulations.nFor different type of plans, the method of calculation of surrender value and the surrender value amount available will be different. In your own interest, it is advisable to continue the policy by paying the premiums regularly for full premium-paying-term of the policy.'
'Query: My assignment application is declined.'
'Response: Any person aggrieved by the decision of LIC to decline or refusal to register such transfer or assignment may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the communication from the insurer containing reasons for such refusal, prefer a claim to the IRDA Authority.'
'Query: What is the procedure of assigning a policy?'
'Response: The assignment can be carried out in favour of person/bank/financial institution by visiting your servicing branch.n n You will require original policy document duly signed over proper text of assignment, notice of assignment & notice acknowledgement fee.'
'Query: If i do not pay the premium, whether my agent will get the commission?'
'Response: It is true that agent will not get commission if you do not pay the premium. But I wish to tell you that by not paying the premium, you will loose the valuable life cover under the policy. Hence, continue to pay the premium. Also note that if agent is terminated, then question of paying commission does not arise.'
'Query: What is premium schedule?'
'Response: Premium schedule is nothing but calender to pay the premium on various dates during any year.'
'Query: What is difference between assignment and nomination?'
'Response: Nomination is an arrangement to receive the policy money or to give a valid discharge to the policy money in case of premature death of policyholder before receipt of policy proceeds. n Assignment is transferring the legal rights/title under the policy to person for some consideration received by the policyholder.'
'Query: Whether revival of lapsed policy allowed in E-services ?'
'Response: Yes, but only for policies that can be revived on the basis of arrears of premium and late fees. Where some forms are to be filled up, like Declaration of good health or medical exam to be undertaken, then such revivals can be done in servicing branch only, not through E-Services.'
'Query: How to revive my policy?'
'Response: Requirements for revival depend upon the policies term and conditions and vary from policy to policy. You can contact any nearest servicing branch or agent to know about the requirements based on your revival quotation. Following are the basic requirements for the revival of policy: n n 1. Declaration of Good Health (DGH) Click here to download DGHn n 2. Any KYC proof n n 3. Medical as applicable according to the Terms & Conditions of the policy. '
'Query: Can you quote the procedure for cancellation of nomination?'
'Response: You have to execute the form for cancellation of nomination on policy document as per instruction and submit the same to Branch where your policy is serviced with necessary fee.'
'Query: How will nomination help us?'
'Response: Nomination will enable the insurance company to settle the death claim amount in favour of nominee person in case of sad demise of policyholder in hassle free manner.'
'Query: Whether I can get the revival requirement through SMS?'
'Response: 1. If you have registered for LIC\'s e-services you can get a revival quotation for your lapsed policy. Please click here.  2. Policyholder can type \'ASKLIC  type of query i.e. prem/rev/bonus/loan/nom (premium/ Loan/ Bonus/ Revival/ Nomination) on his mobile and send it to code \'9222492224\' via SMS to get the necessary information via SMS.  3. You can send SMS \'LICHELP \' to 9222492224, you will get a call from our representative.  4. You can visit your nearest branch for the revival quotation.'
'Query: When can I pay the insurance premiums?'
'Response: Once registered for premiums payments through Net-Banking/Phone-Banking, payment at cash counters and through any other mode of payment is to be avoided, because there are many instances where payment for the same due-month is received twice.'
'Query: What is the benefit of taking single premium policy?'
'Response: Single premium policy will never lapse. No need to pay the premium regularly. Enjoy the continued life cover through out the term of the policy.'
'Query: Whether assignee under the policy can raise the loan?'
'Response: Assignee can raise the loan under the policy with consent of life assured.'
'Query: Whether single premium mode is allowed?'
'Response: Yes, under some of the LIC products, single premium is allowed.'
'Query: Can I reduce premium paying term of my policy?'
'Response: Alteration for increase in term is not allowed, except under Jeevan Dhara Plan. Reduction in term is allowed except under Fixed Term policies e.g. Money Back policies and will be effected from next policy anniversary. Quotation fee of Rs. 50/- will be charged.n n You will be require to bring Policy document for endorsement along with a request in writing.'
'Query: Whether LIC agents are authorised to collect the premium and issue receipts?'
'Response: Authorised or empowered LIC agents can collect the renewal premium and issue the renewal premium receipt on behalf of LIC. The offices of such agents are known as premium point.'
'Query: Under online loan, whether i will be required to visit servicing branch office for getting the loan?'
'Response: On submission of loan papers to any LIC Branch, you need not visit servicing Branch of your policy. Loan will get auto processed and will be credited to your bank account.'
'Query: Can loan be repaid online?'
'Response: Now there is a provision to make Payment through online. Please visit click herefor further details. If you are not non-registered portal user, then click on LIC website click hereand select the option payment through \'pay direct\'.'
'Query: Whether installment premium stated in policy document is inclusive of GST?'
'Response: Installment premium stated in policy document do not contain any GST or service tax. The rates of GST are different for type of products. Rates are different for first year and subsequent years.'
'Query: Please quote days of grace allowed for term insurance products under yearly, half- yearly, or quarterly mode of payment?'
'Response: A grace period of 15 days are allowed, hence pay the premium within days of grace without waiting.'
'Query: Maturity claim forms.'
'Response: Kindly submit the requirements as mandated by LIC. You may kindly contact our servicing Branch in this regard.'
'Query: I have confirmed that my mobile number is correct but still I am not getting the SMS alert.'
'Response: Please check or contact our branch office to check the record for mobile number.'
'Query: For One lakh sum assured policy, How much loan will I get?'
'Response: Yes, facility to raise loan under the policy is available sub to some conditions. Loan is based on acquired surrender value. '
'Query: Will you increase my policy premium as I age?'
'Response: Will you increase my policy premium as I age.'
'Query: Can I know my balance loan amount?'
'Response: You can know your loan status by logging in our customer portal. If you are not already registered, register yourself click here       to avail whole  bunch of other facilities online!!!!'
'Query: Whether GST is applicable on loan amount?'
'Response: LIC will not deduct any GST from loan amount.'
'Query: What is NACH?'
'Response: The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has implemented an electronic payment service termed as National Automated Clearing House (NACH) for banks, financial institutions, Corporates and Government Departments. NACH, National Automated Clearing House, is a funds clearing platform set up by NPCI similar to the existing ECS of RBI. Centralized NACH solution or NACH is expected to consolidate the current multiple ECS systems and provide a framework for removal of local barriers/inhibitors and harmonization of standards and practices.'
'Query: How the loan will be settled under online loan facility?'
'Response: Under online loan, amount of loan will be settled through NEFT into your bank account directly.'
'Query: What are the facilities available for repayment of loan?'
'Response: You can repay the loan through your servicing Branch office or through online also.'
'Query: Why am i not able to make payment online?'
'Response: There can be multiple reasons for not being able to make payment online -nPolicy is in lapsed condition, which is generally after 6 months from last premium due date. In such case, Kindly contact nearest LIC branch for revival of policy. Premium entered is incorrect in case of going through LIC Pay Direct. Premium has to be the basic premium  (without any taxes) that is mentioned on the policy document.If you have taken any RIDER along with your policy, then payment has to be made within the grace period only. After grace period is over, the same cannot be accepted through online portal. The grace period is 30 days in case of YLY, HLY and QLY mode, whereas it is 15 days in case of ECS/NACH monthly mode.'
'Query: How I have to assign the policy for taking loan under the policy?'
'Response: You have to sign the form of assignment given in loan application form, fill it and paste it on policy document.'
'Query: Whether LIC send any intimation before compulsory closure of the policy?'
'Response: Yes, LIC sends final foreclosure of compulsory surrender of the policy before taking final action.'
'Query: Tell me the difference between fund switch and fund redirection.'
'Response: Fund Switch is the request for restructuring the existing fund composition and redirection restructures‚ the fund composition for the future premiums paid without affecting the existing funds.'
'Query: Whether LIC send any notice for paying loan interest during the policy term?'
'Response: Yes, the intimation of loan interest is added in the premium notices.'
'Query: What is benefit of NEFT?'
'Response: NEFT ensures secure, speedy and timely settlement of policy payments in your bank account. Also you are not required to pay any additional charges.'
'Query: Which type of polices can be assigned?'
'Response: Generally, all types of policies excluding pension/ annuity/term type policy, can be assigned'
'Query: What is the difference in Profit/without profit plans?'
'Response: In with profit plans, bonus is disclosed, if any, after periodical valuations are allotted to the policy and are payable along with the contracted amount. It generally has higher premium than Without profit plans.n n In \'without\' profit plan the contracted amount is paid without any addition of bonus. The premium for it are generally lower than with profit plans.'
'Query: Tell me about standard age proof.'
'Response: Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.'
'Query: Can you explain the meaning of FUP by example?'
'Response: FUP is short form of First Unpaid Premium due date.'
'Query: Alternate premium payment options.'
'Response: You can pay the premium by offline method or online method. For online payment, please click here.For offline payment, please visit your nearest LIC office.Please contact us at +91-02268276827. Our Call Centre Services are available 24*7. Also, we are available on WhatsApp – click here.'
'Query: Whether conditionally assigned policy can be surrendered by policyholder?'
'Response: A conditionally assigned policy can be surrendered by the policyholder if the condition under the assignment is not operated.'
'Query: Can I use loan amount to purchase new policy?'
'Response: Yes, you can use the loan amount for taking new policy on your own life.'
'Query: Who can register with the authorised banks?'
'Response: If you hold bank account with any of the following banks -  HDFC Bank,  ICICI Bank,  Bank of Punjab,  Axis Bank, Federal Bank,  Corporation Bank (Union Bank of India) and Citibank  and have Netbanking facility, you can register with the authorised bank.'
'Query: Can you please explain me difference between multiple and successive nomination?'
'Response: In successive nomination, It is possible to have 3 or more nominees registered under the policy at one go which can give valid discharge to policy amount on death of life assured but the right of 2nd nominee and so on will come into operation after death of 1st nominee. under multiple nominee, Right of all nominees are equal or as per share specified for them.'
'Query: What are the standard age proof which are accepted while taking new policy?'
'Response: Certified extract of Birth Certificate, School/ College certificate, Certificate of Baptism, Certified extract of service register in case Govt/ semi-govt, quasi govt employees, Identity card issued by Defence dept stating date of birth, Domicile certificate stating Date of Birth, Passport, PAN card issued by Income tax department, Driving licence, Aadhar card issued by Govt. of India stating date of birth.'
'Query: Do you require any documents as proof of ID for Nominee?'
'Response: ID or Address proof of nominee is not required.'
'Query: What happens when payment is done twice under a policy through EBPP and other mode?'
'Response: The additional payment received under Bill Payment is refunded in next Refund cycle i.e 2 / 3 days to the service provider who in turn credits the amount to the policy holder\'s account / credit card account. Hence the payment done through Debit card / Net banking is refunded in 3/ 4 days. Whereas for payments done through credit card will be show in the credit card statement for next cycle.'
'Query: In which cities do the authorised service providers operate from?'
'Response: Title: Description: BillJunction.com has its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad & Pune. TimesofMoney.com has its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, & Bangalore. BillDesk.com has its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Pune, Baroda & Surat. They also have tie-ups with their partner banks viz. Bank of Baroda, IDBI Bank, ABN-AMRO Bank. '
'Query: How long nomination is valid?'
'Response: The nomination is valid during the policy term and also after the date of maturity. In case, the life assured expire after the date of maturity but before receiving the policy money, then also nomination is valid.'
'Query: After taking loan whether supplementary benefits like accident benefit, rider sum assured will get reduced?'
'Response: On taking the loan under the policy, risk cover under the accident benefit or rider sum assured is not reduced.'
'Query: Please quote me rate of interest charged for collecting late fee.'
'Response: At present, rate of interest is 9.5% simple interest if premium is paid within 6 month from due date.'
'Query: Maximum age limit for effecting alteration in a policy.'
'Response: Alteration is not allowed if Policyholder\'s age is 70 years or above.'
'Query: How can I calculate my premium?'
'Response: You can find the premium calculator link click here'
'Query: Who can nominate?'
'Response: Nomination can be done only by a policyholder who is a major holding policy in his own name.'
'Query: Which policies are eligible for payment of premium through online?'
'Response: Policies which are of ordinary mode of payment ie. Yearly  (Yly), Half-yearly  (Yly) or Quarterly  (Qly). nPolicies with mode of payments such as single premium, ordinary monthly  (Mly) and Salary savings scheme  (SSS) are not available for this facility. Lapsed policies or policies due for revival are not valid.'
'Query: Can I do nomination online?'
'Response: At present, No such facility is available.'
'Query: How can I register for Premier services ?'
'Response: (Note: Before registering for premier services, include all your policies for E-services using the option ‘Add new policies’.) On the service registration page, click \'Premier services registration’. A link is generated and sent to your email id. Click and open the link, click ‘premier services’ On the Registration page, click open and generate registration form, Save and/or print the registration form, then sign it with date. Scan the registration form having your signature. Scan also your PAN card, Aadhaar card or Passport (but ensure their sizes are less than 100 kb) Upload these images and submit. The customer zone validates the registration. You\'ll get an SMS and email confirming the registration. Thereafter, you can use the premier services.'
'Query: What is alteration fees in a policy ?'
'Response: Depending upon the policy conditions for effecting an alteration in a policy a quotation fee/Alteration fee  (as the case may be) of Rs. 50 along with GST @ 18% may or may not be required.'
'Query: Does revival cancels earlier nomination?'
'Response: Revival as such have no effect on existing nomination. Nomination remains same even after revival of the policy.'
'Query: My outstanding premiums are due for more than 6 months. Can I pay one or two premiums?'
'Response: Sorry, No Data found.'
'Query: Where can I surrender my policy?'
'Response: Please visit your servicing branch for any query related to surrender of your policy.'
'Query: Whether any charges are required to be paid for registering the assignment?'
'Response: On receipt of notice of assignment/reassignment, the following fees are to be charged for granting a written acknowledgment for receipt of such notice:n n Rs 50/- For policies issued in electronic form.n Rs 100/- For policies issued in other than electronic form.'
'Query: What happens if person I have nominated dies before me?'
'Response: We suggest fresh nomination in case of death of existing nominee.'
'Query: Can i print a copy of the proposal form i gave for taking the policy ?'
'Response:  Yes, if you have subscribed for premier services.'
'Query: When will the premium be debited from customers account in case of NACH?'
'Response: Premium will be debited only after mandate is successfully validated by customers bank and the response is posted in LIC\'s database centre of the zone.'
'Query: Under online loan facility, if i have to go your LIC branch, then how it will be treated as online loan?'
'Response: Online loan facility is for registering the loan request. Since, original policy document and other loan papers are to be submitted in original, you have to visit any LIC Branch near to you.'
'Query: Why the premium increases as the age increases?'
'Response: The risk of death or probability of dying of the person increases as the age go on increasing. To compensate such increasing risk, premium under the policy will increase for higher age .'
'Query: I have not received the e-receipt of my payment.'
'Response: For payment made using portal user id If your account is debited and receipt is not generated, It may be due to session timed out or any other technical reason. As mentioned in the message displayed at the time of premium payment, for such cases receipt is generated within 3-4 working days when the payment is received, and will be sent to the mail-id mentioned in the profile.However, If the date of payment is prior to at least a week, Kindly send the bank details where debit of premium is reflected and send a mail with bank statement to bo_eps1@licindia.com'
'Query: How to lodge complaint?'
'Response: We try our best to keep you satisfied but if unfortunately at any point in time you are dissatisfied with our services you must give us feedback.n n You can contact Branch Grievance Redressal Officer through telephone or write to them or even visit them (Monday 2.30 pm-4.30 pm without prior appointment). n n If you are registered on our portal you may lodge complaints by logging in with your user id here. '
'Query: Charges for medical reports.'
'Response: There are no fees for revival of policy. However, interest on due premiums is charged. But you may require to pay fees for full medical reports and/or special reports as the case may be.n n For more details please contact your nearest branch, customer zone or agent.'
'Query: Does nominee has right to raise Loan on policy?'
'Response: Loan can not be raised by the nominee as he/she is not having any title or legal rights under the policy. He/she is just a beneficiary who will receive policy proceeds.'
'Query: How I can confirm that my policy can be assigned?'
'Response: Kindly, refer to the policy conditions printed on the back of policy document. If the policy document mentions condition of the assignment, then you can do so.'
'Query: I want to know about multiple nomination.'
'Response: Multiple nominations can be done by policy holder where rights of all nominees are equal or as per share specified for them. Also if any of the nominees die, the share of the deceased nominee will go to his/her legal heirs.'
'Query: My policy is matured, but I have not taken the amount of maturity claim. Whether I will get loan under the policy?'
'Response: After settlement of maturity claim under the policy, contract will come to end. Hence, loan can not be granted.'
'Query: Within how many years I can revive my policy from last premium paid ?'
'Response: Period for which revival under a policy is allowed depends upon date of commencement of policy.n n Policies taken on or after 01.01.2014 maximum period allowed to revive a policy is two years from date of FUP but before the expiry of the policy term.n n For the policies taken earlier to the said date, period of revival is five years but before the expiry of policy term.'
'Query: How can i reset my password?'
'Response: Title: Description: Kindly use the options \'Forgot user-id\' and \'Forgot Password\' available on LIC website. For further help regarding login issues and any changes in online portal profile, you may mail at portalsupport@licindia.com links.'
'Query: Special Revival Campaign'
'Response: '
'Query: Whether I can assign the policy for raising housing loan?'
'Response: You may assign the policy provided policy conditions contains such a clause. In order to raise the loan, policy holder can keep the policy with the bank as a collateral security / property.'
'Query: Where can I get NEFT form?'
'Response: Please download NEFT Form click here'
'Query: Is there any convenience charge for online transaction?'
'Response: As a contemporary initiative to give thrust to digital transactions, We announce a waiver of convenience fee on credit card transactions for payment of renewal premium, advance premium, repayment of loan and loan interest w.e.f 01/12/2019. For payment through Debit Card, Net-Banking and wallets, A flat fee is there which is absorbed by LIC and thus nothing is charged from customers. Thus, all digital collections will be free of charges for customers across all collecting systems (card less payment platforms and card dip/swipe on POS machines).'
'Query: Are children allowed as nominee?'
'Response: You can nominate your minor child as nominee but you have to also appoint major person as an appointee.'
'Query: What are the death claim requirements?'
'Response: The person legally entitled to receive the policy monies should give intimation of death of the policyholder to the servicing Branch. The requirement for the claim are as given below:1. Claim Form \'A\' in Form No.3783If policy has run for 3 years or more from date or risk, claim Form no.3783Amay be used.2. Certified extract from death register.3. The original policy document with deedss of assignments if any. Additional requirement may be required under a policy according to the status of the policy. Please contact your servicing Branch for details.'
'Query: What are the death claim requirements?'
'Response: The person legally entitled to receive the policy monies should give intimation of death of the policyholder to the servicing Branch. The requirement for the claim are as given below:1. Claim Form \'A\' in Form No.3783If policy has run for 3 years or more from date or risk, claim Form no.3783Amay be used.2. Certified extract from death register.3. The original policy document with deedss of assignments if any. Additional requirement may be required under a policy according to the status of the policy. Please contact your servicing Branch for details.'
'Query: What is DGH?'
'Response: DGH is declaration of good health. This is to be submitted by the policyholder at the time of revival of the policy along with other documents. You can Download DGH here '
'Query: What is meant by assignee and assignor?'
'Response: The person who transfers his right under the policy ( life assured/policyholder) is called Assignor.n The person to whom the rights are transferred is called Assignee.'
'Query: Whether there are charges for payment through credit cards ?'
'Response: Yes. Charges as fixed by the card service provider apply.'
'Query: How can I pay the premium via ATM?'
'Response: Facility of payment of premium through ATM can be availed by submitting registration forms to the authorised bank. ICICI bank provides this facility to all customers registered for direct pay.'
'Query: I am having a deferred annuity policy, If I make nomination now?'
'Response: Same nomination is valid and will continue after vesting of pension policy/policies.'
'Query: What are the grounds on which registration of assignment can be rejected by LIC?'
'Response: The registration of assignment may be rejected if assignment is of nature as, a) Not bonafide b) Not in the interest of the policyholder c) Not in public interest  d) Assignment is for the purpose of trading of insurance policy'
'Query: Can i include the policies of my spouse and children under my user-id for E-services ?'
'Response: Yes, Click ‘profile management’ application. Then click ‘family information’, add the name and other details about the spouse and/or children. Then click ‘basic services’, Click “Add new policies” and add the policies.'
'Query: How much loan I will get on my policy?'
'Response: 1. You can check the loan amount you are eligible for through online e-Services. 2. Policyholder can type ASKLIC policy no > type of query i.e.  prem/rev/bonus/loan/nom (premium/ Loan/ Bonus/ Revival/ Nomination) on his mobile and send it to code 9222492224 via SMS to get the necessary information via SMS. n 3. You can send SMS \'LICHELP policy no >\' to 9222492224, you will get a call from our representative. n 4. You can also visit your servicing branch.'
'Query: When do I get my insurance amount?'
'Response: Usually its at Maturity of your policy, However, it depends on the benefits available under your policy.'
'Query: If last day of grace period happens to be Sunday or holiday, then whether I have to pay penal interest?'
'Response: Grace period is a period of one calendar month but not less than 30 days for payment of yearly, half-yearly or quarterly premiums and 15 days for monthly mode of premium payment.'
'Query: Agent is not giving me any service, hence i do not want to pay the premium.'
'Response: Please contact our Branch office for any service you required in respect of your policy. You are always welcomed in our office. But my earnest request is to continue the premium payment. You may contact our Branch.'
'Query: How many days of grace are allowed for monthly mode of payment?'
'Response: A grace period of 15 days are allowed for monthly mode premiums.'
'Query: I want to know about all lic plans'
'Response: Please select one of the plans below'
'Query: I want to know NAV for my plan.'
'Response: You can check out the latest NAV of your funds here'
'Query: I have lost my original policy document. Whether I will be eligible to get loan?'
'Response: You will get loan under the policy provided you have submitted requirements for duplicate policy.'
'Query: Who can be assignee?'
'Response: Any living person can be an assignee provided he is not subject to legal disqualification. n n Accordingly, a judge, legal practitioner or officer connected with a court from purchasing an actionable claim cannot act as assignee. The living person includes any company or association or body of individuals.'
'Query: Where I can revive my policy?'
'Response: You can visit your nearest branch for revival of your policy. As of now facility for online revival is not available.'
'Query: Whether I can pay the premium directly to bank by paying visit?'
'Response: Yes, the policy holder can visit axis bank & IDBI Bank for payment of premium through Cash or their banker\'s cheque.'
'Query: What\'s the operating time of the customer zone?'
'Response: Customer Zone operational timings:Monday to Friday: 08.00 a.m. to 08.00 p.m.Saturday: 10.00 a.m. to 06.00 p.m.'
'Query: Can Only natural guardian be a appointee nominee?'
'Response: The appointee should be a major person. The person appointed as appointee should not be necessarily a guardian of the minor nominee.'
'Query: What are the mode of payments during pendency of the mandate?'
'Response: Yes, premium can be paid at cash counter in Cash or Cheque during the pendency of the mandate.'
'Query: Can a single mandate be used for multiple policies?'
'Response: No, separate mandate is to be used for each policy.'
'Query: What is premium under policy?'
'Response: The installment premium under the policy depends on age of life assured, product, term of the policy, premium paying term, type of policy whether with profit or without profit, mode of the premium payment, riders selected under the policy.'
'Query: Can minor child make nomination?'
'Response: During minority of life assured, he/she can not make nomination. But after completing the age of 18, nomination can be effected.'
'Query: Where I can revive my policy?'
'Response: You can visit your nearest branch for revival of your policy. As of now facility for online revival is not available.'
'Query: Whether I can pay the premium directly to bank by paying visit?'
'Response: Yes, the policy holder can visit axis bank & IDBI Bank for payment of premium through Cash or their banker\'s cheque.'
'Query: What\'s the operating time of the customer zone?'
'Response: Customer Zone operational timings:Monday to Friday: 08.00 a.m. to 08.00 p.m.Saturday: 10.00 a.m. to 06.00 p.m.'
'Query: Can Only natural guardian be a appointee nominee?'
'Response: The appointee should be a major person. The person appointed as appointee should not be necessarily a guardian of the minor nominee.'
'Query: What are the mode of payments during pendency of the mandate?'
'Response: Yes, premium can be paid at cash counter in Cash or Cheque during the pendency of the mandate.'
'Query: Can a single mandate be used for multiple policies?'
'Response: No, separate mandate is to be used for each policy.'
'Query: What is premium under policy?'
'Response: The installment premium under the policy depends on age of life assured, product, term of the policy, premium paying term, type of policy whether with profit or without profit, mode of the premium payment, riders selected under the policy.'
'Query: Can minor child make nomination?'
'Response: During minority of life assured, he/she can not make nomination. But after completing the age of 18, nomination can be effected.'
'Query: How i will come to know the loan amount available under the policy?'
'Response: On visit to any LIC Branch office, loan quotation will be available to you.'
'Query: Whether any online loan quotation will be available?'
'Response: Yes, you can avail information through online loan facility.'
'Query: What is the SMS charge for getting loan information through SMS?'
'Response: The SMS charge will depend on service provider of your mobile phone & will be borne by the policy holder.'
'Query: My loan has been fully recovered from survival benefit. Whether I should receive original policy document'
'Response: If loan is fully recovered from survival benefit claim, then you should get original policy document.'
'Query: When will I get the bonus payment?'
'Response: Bonus payment is made only at the time of Maturity of the policy or death of the policy holder, However survival benefits (money back) shall be paid as mentioned in the policy bond.'
'Query: What are the different reasons of mandate rejections?'
'Response: There are about 60 reasons for mandate rejection. 30 to 40 percent rejections are due to signature mismatch. Kindly check your signature in bank database and that done on NACH mandate.nFor other rejections kindly contact your policy servicing LIC branch.'
'Query: Does LIC charges any fee for nomination?'
'Response: No fee is payable for making nomination at inception of policy. Also, you can change the nomination which was done at taking policy. For this, you will be charged alteration fee + GST.'
'Query: How much alteration charges are required for mode change?'
'Response: No alteration fee is required where change in mode of payment of premiums is to lower frequency Eg. Changing from Quarterly To Yearly. Whereas if policy is converted to SSS policy then in that case no fee is charged. Otherwise, alteration fee of Rs. 50 along with GST @18% will be charged.'
'Query: In case of casualty of minor policyholder who will receive the money?'
'Response: If the nominee is minor, his/her legal natural guardian like father or mother will receive the amount'
'Query: Can i pay back loan in cash above fifty thousand?'
'Response: Repayment above 50000 can only be made by cheque or DD as per KYC guidelines. '
'Query: Can i pay the premium in advance?'
'Response: Yes, you can pay the premium in advance 12 months before due date in any financial year. However, no rebate will be allowed for such advance payment. Such advance premium will be adjusted on due date only.'
'Query: Can I pay back full loan amount anytime?'
'Response: Loan can be repaid anytime after taking loan. If within six months of taking loan, Interest will be charged for Full six months.'
'Query: Can I make nomination in favour of my friend though my spouse or father mother is present?'
'Response: Nominee can be anyone to whom the policy holder wants the financial benefits to accrue in case of his/her death during policy tenure. General practice is to appoint spouse, Children or Parents. The insured person can nominate one or more person as his/her nominee.'
'Query: Whether any fee is charged to get loan quotation?'
'Response: You do not have to pay any fee for taking loan quotation.'
'Query: Do I need sign of agent for nomination?'
'Response: You can take help of your agent for this purpose. But you can directly walk into any LIC office and obtain the necessary forms and guidance.'
'Query: Whether LIC will grant the loan under the policy?'
'Response: LIC will grant the loan under the policy if policy has acquired paid up value. If premiums have not been paid under the policy after grace period, then quantum of loan will be 85% of surrender value.'
'Query: How many days of grace are allowed under yearly, half- yearly or quarterly mode of payment?'
'Response: A grace period of one calendar month but not less than 30 days will be allowed for payment of yearly or half-yearly or quarterly premiums under plans other than term assurance products.'
'Query: Whether extra paid for non-standard age proof will be removed after submission of standard age proof?'
'Response: The extra charges for non-standard age proof is removed from next policy anniversary premium due date.'
'Query: What are the services available online in customer portal?'
'Response: If you are using the internet, you can avail the facility of self-service on a number of things. All you have to do is visit click here & Register in the Customer Portal. Then You can - Pay premium.Get status reports of the policy including Bonus accrual.Get Revival quotation if the policy has lapsed.Get a loan quotation.Get surrender quotation.Use the on-line Insurance advisor and premium calculator.Get Premium paid certificate.  Register Grievances/Complaints.'
'Query: What is mean by age proof?'
'Response: Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.'
'Query: Are you there?'
'Response: Yes ! I am very much alive and with you only.'
'Query: How to register for premium payment through bill Pay/ATM?'
'Response: Registration through bill pay can be done through the bank/service provider\'s website or through a physical form issued by the Bank/Service Provider.nOn being approached, the service provider obtains a written mandate from the Policy holder, authorizing Bank/Service provider to realize the billed amount directly from the bank account. The policy holder have to give the bank account details and other requisite details as required by the service provider. ATM facility is available with AXIS BANK and CORPORATION BANK.'
'Query: What are the benefits of assignment to policyholder?'
'Response: To raise the loan for housing purpose or for business purpose, policyholder can keep the policy with assignee as property. Hence, policy document can be treated as document to raise loan if any emergency needs.'
'Query: What is difference between absolute assignment and conditional assignment?'
'Response: In the Absolute assignment, the right/ title under the policy is permanently transferred to another person. n n In the Conditional assignment, the rights/ title under the policy will get transferred to another person i.e assignee on happening of certain event.'
'Query: How much of the surrender value I will get as a Loan?'
'Response: The loan amount available to you will be 90% of surrender value under in-force policy.The amount of loan depends on type of plan, policy term and premium paying term. Hence, it may vary as per your policy plan.'
'Query: Enquire about loan repayment?'
'Response: Loan can be paid back as desired by you anytime along with interest as on date either at your servicing Branch office or through online portal.'
'Query: What is meant by re-assignment?'
'Response: Re-assignment is transferring the title / rights under the policy back to original policyholder from assignee.'
'Query: Why signature is not present in my receipt?'
'Response: The process of sending e receipt with digital signature is discontinued w. e. f. November 2014. This e receipt is valid for income tax purpose.'
'Query: Can nomination be done when the Policy is lapsed?'
'Response: Yes, you can register nomination under in-force policy or lapsed policy also.'
'Query: What action should I take if the bank rejects my NACH mandate?'
'Response: Make payment of up to date premiums for the policy (all the dues) and submit the fresh NACH mandate to your policy servicing branch.'
'Query: Tell me about assignment?'
'Response: An assignment of a policy may be defined as an instrument whereby the beneficial interest, title and right under a policy is transferred by one person to another person.'
'Query: Where can one use successive type of nomination?'
'Response: In policies which are giving life long benefits like pension, Whole life survival benefit this type of nomination is beneficial.'
'Query: What value should be written for‚ FROM DATE‚ (Start Date) field?'
'Response: Sorry, No Data found.'
'Query: How much insurance do I need?'
'Response: Each individuals insurance needs and requirements are different from that of the others. LICs Insurance plans are designed to suit you individually and give you the most suitable options that can fit your requirement. Please click here and fill out your details. This will help you in deciding which plan is most suitable for you according to your age, occupation, income and insurance needs.'
'Query: What are all the policy types which could be registered through bill pay?'
'Response: Only Non-ULIP, in force policies can be registered through bill pay. Mly mode is not accepted through this payment mode.'
'Query: How to download NACH mandate form?'
'Response: Since some fields on the mandate form are pre-printed with values specific to the division, it can be taken from any Branch of that division where policy is being serviced. There is no need to submit NACH mandate form for existing ECS policies.'
'Query: Why my premium status is not updated on payment through service provider/bank?'
'Response: As the payment is received by LIC through the bank or the service provider, same may not be received on the same day of payment by the policy holder, Hence there is short time-lag between the date of debit of the bank account and the date when the policy reflects the updated status.'
'Query: Are there any downloading options given in the portal ?'
'Response: Yes, at present some forms can be downloaded and/or printed and you need not go to a branch office for same.'
'Query: Is any relation will be there between age and premium to be calculated under the policy?'
'Response: Yes, age is one of the factor who decide the premium to be charged for the taking policy.'
'Query: I want to apply for the loan, what are the requirements?'
'Response: The requirements for granting a loan are as under :-Application for loan with an endorsement of terms and conditions of the loan being placed on the policy.   Policy to be assigned absolutely in favour of the Corporation.   Your original Policy Bond   Policy should be in force or at-least should have continued for a minimum period of three years. However, we are providing an option for an online / offline loan facility too.'
'Query: Whether there are charges for payments through debit cards?'
'Response: No. LIC bears the convenience fee chargeable in this case.'
'Query: What is the condition for proportionate adjustment of loan amount?'
'Response: The repayable amount should be less than o/s loan interest due as on that date. Minimum amount should be Rs. 2000 or 25% of loan amount whichever is more.'
'Query: My loan has been fully recovered from maturity claim, whether I will get original policy document'
'Response: On maturity date, policy contract will come to end. Hence policy document will be cancelled at our end.'
'Query: Where can I repay my loan?'
'Response: You can now repay your loan and loan interest online on LIC\'s website. If you are a registered user you can login into customer portal or even if you are not registered you can repay using \'pay direct\' option. Please click here to repay loan online. Or, You can visit your servicing branch and repay your loan.'
'Query: Under online loan facility, where i will submit loan requirements?'
'Response: After registering the loan request, you have to visit any LIC branch office near to you with loan request number and loan requirements shown on website.'
'Query: Who else has the authority to assing the policy other than the policy holder?'
'Response: Sorry, No Data found.'
'Query: Can assignee make Nomination in favor of his/ her family?'
'Response: Sorry, No Data found.'
'Query: Can I change my nominee?'
'Response: You can change the nomination which was done while taking the policy as many times as you want.n n For change of nomination, You have to send an application in the prescribed format of change of nomination to your servicing branch.n n You will be charged alteration fee + GST and fresh nomination will be effected.'
'Query: Nomination is possible in policies financed by HUF fund?'
'Response: Under HUF policies , karta of HUF takes the policy on the life of life assured. Hence, life assured is not having any legal right'
'Query: Can i get a loan on the same policy again?'
'Response: Absolutely! Further loans on policies are allowed after deduction of earlier outstanding loan amount with loan interest.'
'Query: How to add the policy details at the authorized bank/service provider\'s website?'
'Response: Using the login & password provided by the bank/service provider, the policyholder can log on to account page at the bank/service providers\' website. Policy holder has to add LIC as biller with the policy details and other requisite information. In general, Policy holder has to enter the policy number, The instalment premium (basic premium - as mentioned in policy document), valid email-id and any other information. This is a one-time process for each policy.'
'Query: What other prints can I take?'
'Response: You can take prints of policy bond or details of the policy like policy schedule, policy terms and conditions, benefit illustrations, Mini statement having details like Name, Contact Details, Payment terms, Sum Assured, Premium and Nominee details, etc. Both basic and premier services allow some printing to be done.'
'Query: What documents are required for applying loan?'
'Response: The requirements for applying for a loan are as under:nA duly filled loan application form.n Your original Policy Bond.n NEFT form with a copy of Passbook/cheque/Cancelled cheque. n KYC proof. n n You can apply for loan in branch as well as online. You can also check the eligible loan amount through e-services or through SMS services.'
'Query: Whether assignment for valuable consideration will cancel the nomination?'
'Response: Assignment is made for the purpose of loan or against security, to an insurer or other transferee or assignee, as the case may be, shall not cancel the nomination. n But, it shall affect the rights of the nominee only to the extent of the interest of the transferee or assignee, as the case may be in the policy.'
'Query: Can I pay my full loan amount in the nearest branch?'
'Response: No. Loan can be closed only in branch where Policy bond is submitted.'
'Query: What are the types of assignment?'
'Response: Types of assignment are: Absolute or Conditional'
'Query: Whether can I assign the policy for part of the sum assured?'
'Response: As per new amendment, policy can be partly assigned out of total sum assured under the policy.n n Assignor needs to specifically mention the nature of transfer or assignment i.e. is whole or in part. In case the consideration amount is not specified in the assignment form, the policy will be assumed to be assigned wholly.'
'Query: I have paid twice at EBPP portal.'
'Response: Title: Description: Duplicate payment made through Bill Pay will be refunded to our service provider to be credited back to your account. The refund process shall take 6 to 8 days.  Also,If receipts for both the transactions have been received by customer, then the excess payment made through Bill desk/Online portal will be refunded by servicing branch of LIC through NEFT. We request you to kindly adopt only one mode of premium payment. If standing instructions for premium payment are given to any of the bank, Premium should not be paid through other modes to avoid double payment. For further queries please contact bo_eps1@licindia.com links.'
'Query: Why should I buy policy online?'
'Response: WHY BUY ONLINE?For a customer who is comfortable using the internet and has some experience of having made an online purchase, buying life insurance online is an easy and a logical option. It\'s fast, easy and secure - just fill in the details and make the payment through Internet Banking. Apart from the convenience, online policy is also cheaper than the offline version as online rebate is also available. View online plans content: click here Buy tech term plan content: click here'
'Query: What is premium redirection?'
'Response: Redirection or Premium Redirection refers to changing the proportions in which your future contributions will get invested into the different funds chosen by you. It is to be noted that redirection will only impact the way future contributions are invested and does not affect the composition of existing amounts lying in different funds.'
'Query: Where i will get the information for taking online loan under the policy?'
'Response: On visit to LIC websitewww.licindia.com, Policyholder will login through LIC\'s Premier e-services by click on \'Service  Registration\' and select \'Online Loan Request\' Option from the drop down menu.'
'Query: What is NEFT?'
'Response: NEFT is National Electronic Fund Transfer. It is a RBI operated system that facilitates to transfer a fund from one account of any bank branch to another account of any bank branch. This system is used by LIC to electronically transfer your policy payments to your bank account.'
'Query: What should I do to get the maturity money from the policy?'
'Response: Kindly submit the requirements as mandated by LIC. You may kindly contact our servicing Branch in this regard.'
'Query: I am not able to pay the arrears of premium at once.'
'Response: Don\'t Worry, You can revive your policy by raising loan under the policy, if it\'s eligible for loan. Similarly if the policy is eligible for payment of survival benefit, the same can be utilized for reviving your policy. In case amount loan/survival amount is less than the amount of revival, balance amount has to be paid by the policyholder. Disclaimer: These revival provisions are indicative, for further details; please contact Branch Office/Customer Zone for further details.'
'Query: Whether any concession is granted by LIC to pay the premium on due date?'
'Response: If you select yearly or half-yearly mode of payment for paying the premium, then we offer some % as  concession in premium at the start of the contract. Any specific concession or incentive is not offered if you pay the premium on due date.'
'Query: What are the restrictions put on sum assured for submitting non-standard age proof?'
'Response: For non-standard age proof maximum sum assured can be taken with or without medical will be Rs. 5 lakh only upto age 35 years. However, for age 36 to 45 years, It will be 3 lakh. For age 46 to 50, the maximum sum assured can be purchased is 2 lakh only.'
'Query: Can I submit standard age proof after issue of policy where non-standard age proof is submitted earlier?'
'Response: Yes, you can submit the standard age proof where non-standard age proof was submitted earlier.'
'Query: I took loan on my policy but could not reapy, now my policy is closed. What should I do?'
'Response: Reinstatement of a paid up policy, which has been written off to loan, may be allowed without any evidence of health if reinstatement is applied for within 6 months of the date of surrender.'
'Query: I did not receive your annuity on due date.'
'Response: .IPP cell Contact Nos: n West Bengal, Sikkim, North-East States & Andaman Nicobar: n 033-2212-4932 / 9748 / 4225 / 7427. n n Bihar, Jharkhand & Orissa: 0612-655 0258. n n Uttar Pradesh & Uttarakhand: 0512-237-4146 .n n Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthann 011-2884-4157 / 79. n n Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarhn 0755-267-6221 / 267-6396 . n n Gujarat & DNHn 079-2550-8703 / 05 . n n Maharashtra & Goan 022-6659-8148 / 8277 / 8064 . n n Andhra Pradesh n 040-2324-1948 .n n Karnatakan 080-2296-6550 .n n Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry & Lakshadweepn 044-2861-6024 / 5 / 6 / 7 links.'
'Query: What do you mean by non-standard age proof?'
'Response: Age proof is a document which will give date of birth of the policyholder who intends to take insurance. Age proof can be of different types and is a very important factor in insurance contract.'
'Query: I have fully repaid loan and loan interest, whether I will get my policy document back'
'Response: Yes, Branch office will return the policy document to you sub to confirmation of realisation of cheque payment.'
'Query: Whether any SMS is being sent policy holder for paying loan interest?'
'Response: Yes, if policy holder has registered his mobile number with LIC, then periodical SMS is being sent for paying premium due/ loan interest.'
'Query: What is the minimum amount of loan I can get from my policy?'
'Response: Loan can be granted minimum of Rs.1000/- and nearest rupees thereafter.'
'Query: Want to change mode quarterly to yearly in my policy.'
'Response: Alteration in mode of payment is allowed except under certain plans where only yearly & half-yearly mode are allowed.No alteration fee is required where change in mode of payment of premiums is to lower frequency, Changing from uqarterly to yearly. Otherwise, alteration fee will be required.'
'Query: How the premium is fixed under the policy?'
'Response: The installment premium under the policy depends on age of life assured, product, term of the policy, premium paying term, type of policy whether with profit or without profit, mode of the premium payment, riders selected under the policy.'
'Query: How are you?'
'Response: Wonderful as always. Thanks for asking.'
'Query: Whether nominee is having any right during the life time of the life assured?'
'Response: No, The right or control over the policy will remain with policyholder or life assured only.'
'Query: What are the benefits of paying LIC premiums through net-banking/phone-banking?'
'Response: Within 6 months from first unpaid premium, you can pay premium partly out of total number of dues. However, I recommend for payment of all arrears of premium with late fee in one go. This will ensure continued life cover.'
'Query: What are the different annuity options?'
'Response: Options generally available are as below. For available options under your annuity plan, please refer your policy bond. n n Option A: Annuity is payable till annuitant is alive & stops on death n Option B/C/D/E: Annuity continues till the end of the guaranteed period [5/10/15/20 years respectively] or till death, whichever is later. If death takes place during the guaranteed period, The nominee gets annuity till the end of this predetermined period. n Option F: Annuity for life with the return of Purchase Price on death. n Option G:Annuity for Life increasing @ 3% every n year. n Option H: Annuity for Life where, on death, the spouse gets 50% Annuity for life. n Option I: Annuity for Life where, on death, spouse gets 100 % Annuity for life.'
'Query: What is bill pay facility of paying premium?'
'Response: By using bill pay facility, premium can be paid through the net banking or credit cards either by giving standing instructions or paying directly through Banks website.'
'Query: What will happen if I do not pay the premium on due date?'
'Response: Your liability of outstanding loan and loan interest proportionately gets reduced. Further you have to pay loan interest on reduced o/s loan amount.'
'Query: How can I exercise nomination of my LIC policies?'
'Response: After issue of policy, Nomination can be made only by an endorsement on the back of policy itself and such a nomination is required to be notified to the corporation and registered in its records.'
'Query: Can you give the details of the requirements for maturity claim?'
'Response: Please visit the Servicing Branch of your Policy to get the requirements, however, you may download the maturity claim form here. here'
'Query: Is there any additional charges for registration of assignment reqest?'
'Response: There are no separate charges for NEFT registration.'
'Query: Whether policy should be inforce for granting the loan?'
'Response: If policy is in full force by paying all arrears of premium, then quantum of loan available will be more.'
'Query: Whether LIC can refuse loan under the policy?'
'Response: Generally LIC do not refuse loan under the policy unless it is not available under the plan'
'Query: What documents should be submitted for doing assignment?'
'Response: The required documents for assignment are:1. Original Policy Document duly signed over the proper text of assignment.2. Notice of Assignment3. Notice Acknowledgement Fee'
'Query: Can I pay the premium through mobile?'
'Response: Premium can be paid online using LIC mobile app on windows and android phones.'
'Query: I have taken policy under MWP act, whether I can raise the loan?'
'Response: If policy is under MWP act, then policy holder can not raise the loan. Trustee under the policy can raise the loan provided he has been authorised.'
'Query: How can I get the claim if the policy holder is no more?'
'Response: It\'s extremely saddening to hear about the loss of a dear one. In case of this unfortunate event, the nominee may file a Death Claim at the Servicing Branch. You can find the relevant Claim forms here. here'
'Query: How to register with the authorised banks?'
'Response: If you hold bank account with any of the following banks -  HDFC Bank,  ICICI Bank,  Bank of Punjab,  Axis Bank, Federal Bank,  Corporation Bank (Union Bank of India) and Citibank  and have Netbanking facility, you can register with the authorised bank.'
'Query: Whether nominee can raise loan under the policy?'
'Response: Nominee is not having any title under the policy. Thus, cannot raise loan under the policy.'
'Query: I have lost my original policy document. Whether I will be eligible to get loan?'
'Response: You will get loan under the policy provided you have submitted requirements for duplicate policy.'
'Query: While raising the loan under the policy whether consent of nominee is required?'
'Response: Consent of nominee is not required.'
'Query: Can loan be paid partially?'
'Response: Yes, you can pay the part amount of loan at any point of time with outstanding interest due upto last HLY due and loan interest on part repayment of loan amount.'
'Query: What are different online payment methods?'
'Response: One can pay premium online through -n Credit Cards (Visa/MasterCard)n  Debit Cards (including RUPAY) n  Wallets n  UPI  (AXIS, SCB, BHIM)n  Net-Banking.'
'Query: Can I cancel nomination without consent of nominee?'
'Response: You can cancel the nomination without any consent of nominee and can nominate afresh.'
'Query: I have forgotten to pay my premium within days of grace, What will happen to my policy now?'
'Response: If premium under a policy is not paid within days of grace, the policy lapses. The policy can be revived by paying arrears of premium along with late fee subject to submission of health requirements if applicable under your policy. For further details you may contact your branch office or Customer Zone. Details are available on our website click here'
'Query: Can I do loan cum revival?'
'Response: Loan Cum Revival is a facility where you can revive your policy by raising loan under the policy provided it is eligible for loan. In case amount loan amount is less than the amount of revival, balance amount needs to be paid.'
'Query: What is importance of age proof?'
'Response: Age is a very important factor in insurance contract. The eligibility criteria to enter into an insurance contract for a particular plan & term, premiums to charged etc. is based on age . hence, submission of age proof is must for taking policy.'
'Query: Can I pay the premium through any franchisees?'
'Response: Yes, some franchisees are authorised to collect the premium on behalf of LIC. At present, the approved franchisees are :nCSC network (common service network e-governance service india ltd)nAP online- for andhra pradesh state onlyn MP online- for madhay paradesh state only n Suvidhaa infoservices pvt ltd.'
'Query: Whether monthly EMI facility is available for repayment of loan?'
'Response: EMI facility is not available for repayment of loan.'
'Query: How the method of proportionate adjustment of loan will work?'
'Response: We will accept lump sum amount towards proportionate adjustment of loan amount and outstanding loan interest over the said loan amount from date of last o/s loan interest due up to date of repayment of proportionate loan amount subject to some conditions.'
'Query: How long will you take to answer my query?'
'Response: I am busy inside working on it.'
'Query: How far from here?'
'Response: Well ! Google maps are the smartest and the best to answer this query !'
'Query: Can I take loan on Policy without knowledge of nominee?'
'Response: Loan can be raised by the policyholder under his/her policy without the consent of the nominee.'
'Query: I have lost my policy document, whether I should get duplicate policy first?'
'Response: Original policy document will required to be assigned in favour of LIC for granting loan under the policy. So, you need to submit the duplicate policy requirements. After getting duplicate policy, loan will be granted to you'
'Query: Whether assignment can be done in favour of two or more persons?'
'Response: Assignment can be done for two or more persons.n n Where the policy is assigned in favor of two or more persons, the assignees will take as tenants-in-common or joint tenants according to their interest as expressed in the deed of assignment.'
'Query: Am I eligible for assignment?'
'Response: Any person competent to contract & having title to the property OR authority to transfer the property if it is not of his own, may assign a policy.n n Every person is competent to contract who is of the age of majority according to the law, who is of sound mind and not disqualified from contracting by any law can assign the policy.'
'Query: Are there any SMS services avaible for customers?'
'Response: Yes ! I am very much alive and with you only.'
'Query: What are types of revival?'
'Response: You can revive your policy by paying due premiums and interest on them and providing adequate proof of good health. You can also make use of LOAN-CUM-REVIVAL /SB-CUM-REVIVAL/INSTALLMENT REVIVAL.  1. LOAN-CUM-REVIVAL /SB-CUM-REVIVAL:  You can revive your policy by raising loan under the policy if it\'s eligible for loan. Similarly if the policy is eligible for payment of survival benefit, the same can be utilized for reviving your policy. In case amount loan/survival amount is less than the amount of revival, the balance amount has to be paid. n 2. INSTALLMENT REVIVAL:  In case of installment revival you will not be required to pay all arrears of premiums in one go. The amount required to revive the policy will be spread in the next 2 year\'s installment premium and the installment premium will be increased for the next 2 years. '
'Query: What is the difference between basic and premier services ?'
'Response:  As a registered user, at first you get only basic services like: Paying the premium onlineSeeing policy status, etc. Thereafter, you should register for premier services like: Getting a policy loan online Seeing the scanned image of your proposal papers or policy bond Seeing claim details, etc.'
'Query: Whether I can raise loan as per my need?'
'Response: Yes, if your need of loan is nor of full loan available under the policy, then you can apply the loan for exact amount.'
'Query: What are the types of non standard age proof?'
'Response: Stamped/ unstamped self declaration about date of birth, declaration by elder of proposer, service record where date of birth is not mentioned, horoscope, ESIS card, marriage certificate of muslims, voter ID, certificate issued by gram panchayat, ration card.'
'Query: My policy is a Joint life policy do I need to make nominations?'
'Response: It is preferable to have nomination under joint life plans also.'
'Query: Can nomination be done in assigned policy?'
'Response: Nomination is auto cancelled in case of assignment.'
'Query: Are women eligible for Life Insurance?'
'Response: Women who work and earn an income are treated at par with men. In other cases, a restrictive clause is imposed, only if the age of the female is up to 30 years and if she does not have an income attracting Income Tax.'
'Query: Nomination is possible in case of MWP ACT policies?'
'Response: There is no need to nominate under MWP act policies as trust is formed to take care in this case.'
'Query: I want to check nomination under my Policy.'
'Response: You can see your policy bond for this purpose or register your self on our portal and get confirmation regarding the same.'
'Query: I want to known branch address'
'Response: Please select any search option.'
'Query: What is existence certificate?'
'Response: Existence Certificate is a document signed by a policyholder saying that he/she is alive to receive the annuity under his/her policy.This EC has to be submitted every year for the continuation of annuity. However, under option‚ (Annuity for Life with the return of Purchase Price on death), this EC has to be submitted once in every 5 years.'
'Query: I need information about appointee in nomination.'
'Response: An appointee may be appointed to receive the policy moneys in the event of death of the life assured during the minority of the nominee.n n The appointee should be a major person. The appointment of the appointee is valid under the Indian Insurance Amendment act 1950.'
'Query: How can I pay premium using NACH?'
'Response: NACH (National Automated clearing house) is a centralised system, launched with an aim to consolidate multiple ECS systems running across the country. It facilitates interbank, high volume, electronic transactions which are repetitive and periodic in nature. To avail this facility you can obtain the NACH mandate form from your nearest branch office and after choosing your mode of payment viz., monthly, quarterly, half-yearly or yearly you can submit the duly filled form there.'
'Query: For taking loan under the policy, whether i have bring any surety?'
'Response: There is no need to bring any surety for granting loan under the policy.'
'Query: What are the limitations of assigning a policy to a minor?'
'Response: Where an assignment is made in favour of minor, the policy can not be dealt with during the minority of the assignee, even with consent of natural guardian or appointed guardian. n n This means minor assignee cannot raise a loan, surrender or further assign the policy during his/her minority.'

